About the One Community Foundation


















































About Us

About Us
Our Blog



UNITY Leaders


UNITY Champions


Donate


Contact Us


































About Us

























The ONE Community Foundation provides educational opportunities to ensure better understanding of nondiscrimination and the importance of being LGBTQ inclusive. Additionally, the foundation offers tuition assistance to LGBTQ and allied high potential leaders for leadership training.
We are committed to reshaping Arizona’s image through educating, empowering and connecting our diverse LGBTQ and allied communities with business leaders, academic institutions, elected leaders, members of the media and key opinion leaders about the benefits of inclusion and its direct impact on attracting and retaining top talent and businesses—and thereby, ensuring our state’s economic sustainability.




Stephanie's Grant
Stephanie Watkins-Clark served and was one of the founding members of the ONE Community’s Multicultural Advisory Board and was a very special woman. After her diagnosis of Sarcoma in 2013, Stephanie passed away at the young age of 40 in late 2015. Though she lost her battle with cancer, she will forever be associated with working for equal rights with the ONE Community’s Stephanie Watkins-Clark Grant for diverse, LGBTQ and allied high potential leaders.






ONE Community
ONE Community is a member-based coalition of socially responsible businesses, organizations and individuals who support diversity, inclusion and equality for all Arizonans. We pride ourselves in our diverse and inclusive programs, the opportunities we create, and the business-to-business (B2B), business-to-consumer (B2C), and community engagement opportunities for the LGBTQ and allied communities to come together.






OpenAZ
We’re a coalition of businesses, leaders and everyday Arizonans committed to improving the future of Arizona. Our goal is to promote diversity and inclusion in order to drive prosperity and economic growth. We believe that LGBTQ inclusion is not only the right thing to do, but good for the business of Arizona.































Copyright © 2020 ONE Community Foundation.All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy.



Let’s talk










Sign in.