ONE Community Foundation


















































About Us

About Us
Our Blog



UNITY Leaders


UNITY Champions


Donate


Contact Us





















































Arizona lacks equal protections.
Did you know that 73% of Arizonans mistakenly believe that sexual orientation and gender identity or expression is covered by Arizona’s non-discrimination laws? The truth is that they’re not covered, and we want to change that.















How we help.
Our work helps educate the general public, business leaders, faith leaders and elected officials that these protections don’t currently exist and why it is so important to update our policies for both LGBTQ people and our state’s economic future.



Business
We educate and engage the business community on the benefits of LGBTQ inclusion and its direct impact on Arizona’s image and competitiveness. We have conducted extensive research on the contribution of the LGBTQ and allied community and have created a workplace inclusion-training curriculum.
Learn More




Faith
Our faith director works with communities of faith across the state through a dynamic curriculum program meant to break down barriers between faith and LGBTQ people. To date, more than two hundred clergy members of all faiths have signed the UNITY Pledge and joined our efforts.
Learn More




Transgender
We work to break down barriers and increase understanding of transgender issues and people.  We do outreach and education to businesses, schools, and faith communities of all kinds to broaden awareness of transgender issues across the state through educational presentations and story telling. 
Learn More




Millennial
We are educating, engaging and empowering Millennials – the workforce of today and the business and community leaders of the future – about the importance of a fully inclusive Arizona. Through our Millennial outreach our goal is to create advocates across Arizona for inclusion and equal treatment.
Learn More








Become a sustainer.
Help us support the educational work ONE Community Foundation is doing every day to ensure we live in an Arizona that celebrates, respects, and protects, everyone who works, lives, and plays in our great state.
Your donation helps us to build a sustainable model for our work. Contribute today if you think Arizona should be Open for Business to Everyone!

Donate




The OpenAZ UNITY Pledge.
OpenAZ was created by ONE Community and the ONE Community Foundation with the goal of making Arizona truly welcoming and open for business to everyone! 





Join our coalition of businesses, leaders and everyday Arizonans committed to raising awareness about the lack of equal protections, educating about the importance of these protections, and building a coalition of support for equal protections through the UNITY Pledge — the largest equality pledge in the nation!
Sign the UNITY Pledge




Together in UNITY.






UNITY Leaders are LGBTQ and allied community members that make an investment in ONE Community Foundation at a $100 a month or $1,000 annually or above.
Learn More







UNITY Champions are LGBTQ and allied businesses or organizations that invest in ONE Community and/or ONE Community Foundation for $7,500 or above.
Learn More



























Copyright © 2020 ONE Community Foundation.All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy.



Let’s talk










Sign in.