The League of Arizona Cities & Towns supports LGBTQ non-discrimination update - ONE Community Foundation

















































About Us

About Us
Our Blog



UNITY Leaders


UNITY Champions


Donate


Contact Us
































Our Blog
The League of Arizona Cities & Towns supports LGBTQ non-discrimination update
Angela Hughey  /  Aug 24, 2018 12:11 PM




The League of Arizona Cities & Towns passes resolution to support a statewide non-discrimination update to include sexual orientation and gender identity
ONE Community commends the League of Arizona Cities & Towns for passing a resolution to support a statewide update to Arizona’s current non-discrimination statute to include protections for sexual orientation and gender identity. The resolution, which reads: “Amend statute to protect from discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity,” was passed on August 21st by the Resolutions Committee.Currently, only five Arizona cities have ordinances that ban discrimination; however, Arizona has no statewide laws that protect people from being fired based on their sexual orientation or gender identity or discriminated against in housing and public accommodations. “I am proud to have introduced this important resolution to the League of Arizona Cites & Towns,” Mesa Mayor John Giles said. “Not only is this a basic human right that deserves protection, expanding our state non-discrimination statute is vital to advancing the economic development and prosperity of our communities. World class companies like Apple and the travel and tourism industries look for these protections when scouting a new location, expanding their business or hosting an event.”
“We applaud the League for their commitment to diversity, inclusion and equality for all Arizonans,” said Angela Hughey, President and Co-Founder of ONE Community and ONE Community Foundation. “This resolution recognizes that updating our laws is both an economic issue and the right thing to do. Patchwork laws are bad for business and bad for Arizonans. Nobody’s rights should depend on their zip code,” concluded Hughey.City of Scottsdale Councilwoman, Virginia Korte, who supported the resolution agreed, “Issues of nondiscrimination transcend borders and are a matter of statewide concern. Regions we compete with already have these protections in place. Our lack of protections put us at a competitive disadvantage when it comes to attracting and retaining talent, businesses, and large events. Additionally, treating everyone with fairness and respect is morally incumbent upon us all.”While individual municipalities have the authority to create local ordinances, this resolution recognizes the importance of a statewide solution so that all Arizonans have equal protections no matter who they are or who they love and regardless of their zip code or city border.









About the author




Angela Hughey









Share this

































Copyright © 2020 ONE Community Foundation.All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy.



Let’s talk










Sign in.