Job Opening: Faith Director for One Community Foundation



















































About Us

About Us
Our Blog



UNITY Leaders


UNITY Champions


Donate


Contact Us
































Our Blog
Faith Director - Job Description
  /  May 24, 2017  8:46 AM




(Part-Time, 30 hours/week)
 
Job Description: 
ONE Community Foundation’s Faith Director will advance our educational outreach and advocacy work by increasing the public visibility of people of faith who support equality. This includes: recruiting more “open for worship” signers, creating earned media opportunities for faith leaders to talk about being open for worship to everyone, and recruiting clergy to engage leaders/influencers in municipalities such as Glendale, Mesa, Scottsdale, and Chandler, and at the state capitol on issues of equality, equal treatment, and transgender rights.Key Tasks: 


Consistent communication with our 200+ Open for Worship Clergy.  Building our Open For Worship Clergy base to 300+ with faith based leaders signing the UNITY Pledge.  


Facilitating letters to the Governor from clergy statewide in support of equal treatment and an executive order that is inclusive of gender identity and sexual orientation and gender identity for state contractors (especially from mainline , LDS, and Catholic churches)


Creating testimonial videos of clergy talking about why their faith compels them to treat everyone equally


Organizing faith leaders to speak at City Council meetings in Glendale, Mesa, Scottsdale, and Chandler


Scheduling meetings between faith leaders and their state/municipal representatives in Glendale, Mesa, Scottsdale, Chandler and other municipalities based on need, to talk about why their faith compels them to treat everyone equally in an effort to combat the myth that faith and LGBTQ inclusion are mutually exclusive.


Hosting/delivering our curriculum based “inclusive church workshops”, with a focus on more conservative mainline,  LDS, and non-denominational faith communities in our target areas of Glendale, Mesa, Scottsdale, and Chandler.


Traveling outside of the Phoenix Metropolitan area quarterly to engage with clergy in rural Arizona and create a presence/space for dialogue in more conservative parts of the state about the intersection of faith and equality, and eventually adding trans issues as well in conjunction with Ashton Skinner, ONE Community Foundation’s transgender organizer. 


Coordinating opinion-editorials/letters to the editor (penned by faith leaders with help from our communications team) to targeted publications such as the Arizona Republic, Scottsdale Independent, Glendale Star, and East Valley Tribune about the importance of equal treatment from a perspective of faith


Building opportunities to talk about faith and equal treatment into ONE Community’s media calendar across print, digital, radio and television 


 
Qualifications: 


Holds a Master of Divinity (M.Div) or other theological degree


Is familiar with and well-versed in LGBTQ identities/issues 


Is deeply committed to engaging communities of faith, as well as faith leaders, in political engagement for LGBTQ advocacy


Self starter, strong drive and independent motivation, comfortable working with little supervision


Is able to work with mainstream and more conservative denominations including Mormons, Evangelicals, Catholics, Methodists, Presbyterians, Lutherans, and Orthodox Jews. 


At least 1-2 years of experience working in the church is preferable but not required


Lives in Arizona - preferably in the Phoenix metro area 


 
Please email a resume and cover letter to [email protected] (a single PDF document is preferred), with the subject line “Faith Director Application”. And email [email protected] with any questions. Interviews will be conducted on a rolling basis and you should expect an email response within a week of your submission.
 









Share this

































Copyright © 2020 ONE Community Foundation.All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy.



Let’s talk










Sign in.