Create a project presentation – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


PresentationCreate a project presentation
Write a final research report
Competing at fairs



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Communicate your findings
A student’s ability to clearly communicate and present their findings in a persuasive manner is a key science & engineering practice.
Preparing a science or engineering project presentation will entail reviewing the information they’ve documented in their lab notebook and preparing to summarize and communicate that information in a clear manner. This involves being intentional about what to extract from the lab notebook with an understanding that not everything will be included in the presentation.
Create a project presentation
Depending on the requirements of the specific science fair, project presentation submissions may be physical (on a project board) or digital (as a slide deck).
Some school fairs may require a physical submission. Generally, these are presented on a standard, three-panel display board, measuring 48″ wide and 36″ tall, and high school projects go as tall as 108″ and no wider than 48″.
Submissions for the SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair will be digital only. Slide decks should be formatted as a multi-page pdf, consisting of a maximum of 15 slides with 14 pt font.
Project presentation sections

arrow_drop_downTitle Card/Quad Chart

On the project presentation, the title slide can be fun and show the students’ personalities. Grades PreK-8 should create a Title Card, while High School students should create a Quad Chart. The first slide in your deck will become the thumbnail representing your project in the virtual exhibit hall. Students should not put their name or other identifying information on any of the slides, including the title slide.



arrow_drop_downIntroduction

Important and relevant information regarding the research question and background research, such as what work scientists and engineers have already completed on the topic, should be discussed here.



arrow_drop_downQuestion/Problem and predictions

Students should state the primary research question and make predictions about the outcome of their investigations.



arrow_drop_downInvestigative methods or procedure

The step-by-step procedure and materials for the student’s investigation will be presented here. Students should mention the variables they measured and list which are dependent and independent. They should also mention what acted as their control.



arrow_drop_downResults and data visualization

This is a presentation of data tables and/or graphs showing relevant trends or patterns (or lack thereof) that students discovered in their investigations. Bulleted summarized statements clarifying trends or observations are encouraged.



arrow_drop_downDiscussion and interpretation

This is an explanation of results in more detail, presenting data as evidence for their conclusion, including an acknowledgment of limitations or uncontrolled variables that may have affected their results. Here, students should summarize and evaluate their experimental procedure, making comments about its success and effectiveness, and argue the validity of their claims. It is also an opportunity to connect back to their background research or explain anything else they learned along the way. Here students engage in scientific argumentation.



arrow_drop_downImplications and ideas for future research

In this section, the student can explore why their project is important to the real world. They can tell the judges and readers why this issue is interesting or critical to them and their community.
Students should also discuss ideas for future research that would build on their current project. The student could suggest changes in the experimental procedure or design and possibilities for further study. This section is the student’s final message to readers and judges.



arrow_drop_downReferences

All resources and publications should be cited here.



arrow_drop_downLab notebook

If presenting a physical project, lab notebooks can accompany the project board. If submitting a digital project presentation, scan some key pages of the notebook to upload.


Important notes for digital submissions
The student’s name should not appear on the project presentation. If a physical board, the name can be on the back. If a digital submission, the name can be in the file name.Use a font size of at least 14pt for the text on the slides. It’s acceptable to use 10pt fonts for captions on pictures and tables.The first slide must be a Title slide or Quad chart.Slide decks should be in landscape orientation with a page size of 8.5″x11″No links or hyperlinks are permitted (except as a source for an image or on the references page)Photos or drawn diagrams are encouraged to present non-numerical data, to propose models that explain the results, or just to show the experimental setup.Do not include photos of faces. Even photos of the student should be from the back or side and then only if it shows them engaged in their project.Every picture and image should have captions that include the source of the image.
Resources
 Display and safety rules
Project checklist & examples for PreK-8
Project checklist & examples for High School









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy