Other competitions – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








SARSEF winners may qualify for other competitions

arrow_drop_downArizona Science and Engineering Fair (AzSEF)

AzSEF is the state fair for Arizona. Students in Grades 5-12 who have placed first at a school, home school, district, county or regional science fair are eligible to compete at AzSEF.
No more than 12 entries per grade level (one for each of the 12 categories) will be accepted from each school in the elementary and junior divisions.
In the event your fair does not give place awards, it is the discretion of the fair director to send the project considered the best representative of the category selected.
 learn more




arrow_drop_downRegeneron International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF)

This fair is for high school students, who must first qualify at an affiliated fair like SARSEF Regional Fair. The top prize is a $75,000 scholarship. From the SARSEF Regional Fair, eight high school projects move on each year as finalists — and three middle school projects are selected as observers — to attend this global competition.
 learn more




arrow_drop_downThe Broadcom MASTERS (Math, Applied Science, Technology and Engineering for Rising Stars)

Middle school projects that win first or second place at the SARSEF Fair qualify for this competition. Finalists take home more than $100,000 in awards and scholarships.
 learn more



Projects for SARSEF may be used in other competitions

arrow_drop_downRegeneron Science Talent Search (STS)

Each year, nearly 1,900 students enter the Regeneron STS, submitting original research in critically important scientific fields of study. Unique among high school competitions, the Regeneron STS focuses on identifying, inspiring, and engaging the most promising scientists among the nation’s high school seniors.
 learn more




arrow_drop_downThe Junior Science and Humanities Symposium (JSHS)

The Junior Science and Humanities Symposia (JSHS) Program is a tri-service – U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force – sponsored STEM competition which promotes original research and experimentation in the sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) at the high school level and publicly recognizes students for outstanding achievement. By connecting talented students, their teachers, and research professionals at affiliated symposia and by rewarding research excellence, JSHS aims to widen the pool of trained talent prepared to conduct research and development vital to our nation.
 learn more
AZ regional jshs











Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy