Judging criteria – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Judging criteria
Throughout SARSEF Regional Fair Week, projects will be evaluated by judging teams and award recipients will be determined. Evaluation criteria have been updated to reflect the latest scientific thinking and parallels the criteria used to judge International Science and Engineering Fair projects. Grand Awards’ judging is conducted using a 100-point scale with points assigned to the research question, design and methodology, execution, creativity, and presentation.
Each section includes key items to consider for evaluation. Students are encouraged to design their presentations in a clear and informative manner to allow thorough evaluation. Judges should take into consideration the grade level when scoring. Judges will also examine any lab notebook samples and, if present, any special forms if SRC permission is required.
Data is important in research. Judges will evaluate the accuracy and thoughtfulness of the data collected. If their data show trends, the student should show intentional analysis and graphically represent those trends clearly. Students must be careful about making predictions outside of the scope of their project — that is, interpreting a cause and effect that they cannot statistically support with their data. In processing data and arguing claims, students should show accurate mathematical thinking and reliable reasoning.
Judging criteria forms used at SARSEF Regional Fair
 Elementary school judging criteria
Middle school judging criteria
High School judging criteria









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy