Choose a topic – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


ImaginationDetermine team size
Start a lab notebook
Choose a topic



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Choose a topic
Science and engineering fairs are no longer just volcano models and light circuits. When choosing a research topic, students should ask questions they care about and that spark their curiosity. Encourage students to notice the world around them and wonder how they might understand it better or solve a problem they see.
Topics to avoid
Some types of projects are highly subjective, difficult to measure, or are overly done. Others don’t involve the kinds of numerical measurements wanted in a science or engineering project. Here is a list of common topics you should avoid:
Projects found online. While it’s ok to brainstorm by looking online, students should be making their own informed decisions on topic and procedure, not following an online project step-by-step as if they were following a recipe for a science project.Preference, taste, or consumer product comparisons (Ex: Which tastes better, Coke or Pepsi?, Which type of popcorn, batteries, detergents is best?)Projects that do not use science and engineering practices.Projects that you already know the answer to.
Topics that are prohibited
Some topics violate the rules of most science fairs and will disqualify a student before it is even judged. These include:
Any topic that requires dangerous or illegal materials.Any topic that requires drugging, stress or discomfort to a live vertebrate animal.Any topic that creates unacceptable risk (physical or psychological) to a human subject.Any topic that involves collection of tissue samples from living humans or vertebrate animals.
 read more about rules and restrictions

Science or engineering
Projects will be judged using one of two sets of criteria: either as a science project or an engineering project. Although very similar, scoring is slightly different.
Science is asking questions
Students may notice and wonder in a variety of ways. They may be observing the world, inspired by a scientific theory, or engaging in a computer model or simulation. The questions generated by this engagement are scientific questions if they require the gathering of empirical evidence through investigation in order to be answered.
Engineering is solving problems
While science is focused on finding the answer to a question, engineering focuses on solving a particular problem. Engineers still utilize questions to help define the problem and determine the best way to collect data, but the difference is that the focus is on the solving of the identified problem.
Scientists and engineers frequently revisit different phases and practices throughout the research process. Though the topics on this page are organized sequentially, they are science and engineering practices, not ordered steps like in a recipe, and elements of each may be revisited by students more than once as they investigate their topic. We call this unordered way of working with steps “iterative,” and it’s an essential part of the research process.
Project categories
Projects are judged according to the category they are assigned. Some projects may fit into multiple categories. When registering, students will determine which category they feel their project fits best. If students are having trouble selecting a category, it might help for them to consider what background they want the judges reviewing their project to have.
Project CategoriesPreK-56-89-12Animal SciencesBehavioral and Social SciencesBiochemical Science and BioengineeringBiomedical and Health SciencesCellular and Molecular BiologyChemical and Material SciencesEarth and Environmental SciencesElectrical and Mechanical EngineeringEnergy and Environmental EngineeringEngineering, Robotics, and Computer ScienceHealth and WellnessMicrobiologyPhysics, Astronomy, and MathematicsPlant SciencesRobotics and Computer Science
Need help choosing a topic?
If students need help discovering a science fair project idea that can hold their interest, we suggest that they ask themselves the following questions.
By brainstorming answers in their lab notebooks, they may identify a great research topic.
What problems do you see in your world?What have you noticed in nature lately?What have you wondered about in your house or neighborhood lately?What needs to be done better, faster, or correctly?
SARSEF provides many opportunities to receive mentorship or educational outreach. Whether students need a simple consultation or guided research from beginning to end, our programs create those possibilities.
 view our programs

To inquire about mentorships, please contact Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy