Ways to Give – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?






Corporate Sponsorship
Our sponsors are critical to the youth who benefit from SARSEF’s programs. You are important to their future and will benefit by investing in this remarkable pipeline of thinkers and innovators.
Learn more







Contribute a Sponsored Award
By contributing a sponsored award to a student at the SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair, you are inspiring students to pursue career paths in science, technology, engineering, and math fields that matter to you!
Learn more






Other ways to give


Make a planned gift
Love SARSEF beyond your lifetime when you leave your legacy through an estate gift (will and trust bequests, beneficiary inclusions, gifts of stock, charitable gift annuities, and more). Contact us at (520) 273-8259 or director@sarsef.org for more information.


Give goods or volunteer
Gifts of volunteer time, goods, or services allow us to offset program costs. Share your ideas with us at (520) 273-8259 or director@sarsef.org.


Corporate sponsorship
Know a company or business that wants to invest in youth, their industry needs, and tomorrow’s workforce? Download our sponsor opportunities brochure.


Employee giving
If your employer has a matching-gift program, allows you to make a gift through payroll deduction, or offers volunteer grants, you may be able to double your gift! Contact your Human Resources or Community Relations office for more information. 


Shop on Amazon
Register for SARSEF to be your charity of choice and shop at smile.amazon.com. Amazon will donate 0.5% of your eligible purchases to SARSEF.


Have another donation in mind?
We’d love to hear from you! Contact us at (520) 273-8259 or director@sarsef.org.









Your contribution matters
We need your help to create Arizona’s future critical thinkers and problem solvers through science and engineering – now more than ever.
Every student we inspire to ask questions about the world around them, every teacher and parent we support, begins with you. When you donate to SARSEF, you make it possible for all Arizona students to have the opportunity to think critically and solve problems using science and engineering.
 Donate now
Ways to give









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy