Collect data – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


InvestigationDocument the procedure
Carry out investigations
Collect data



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Collect data
Students will need to prepare a data table in their laboratory notebook to help them collect their data. A data table will ensure that they are consistent in recording their data and will make it easier to analyze their results once they have finished their experiment.
It is important that students take detailed notes in their lab notebooks as they conduct their experiments. In addition to their data, students need to record their observations as they perform the experiment. Students will write down any problems that occur, anything they do that is different than planned, ideas that come to mind, or any interesting occurrences. Students need to be on the lookout for the unexpected. Their observations will be useful when they analyze their data and draw conclusions.
Each entry should be dated, have a brief description of what they did or observed that day, and mention their goal or plan for the next time. This will help them pick up where they left off when they return.
Aim for accuracy
Students should be as exact as possible when conducting their experiment or investigations – in method, taking measurements, and writing notes. Failures and mistakes are part of the learning process, so students need not get discouraged if they need to repeat their test a few times. Building in enough time in their schedule to allow them to troubleshoot and repeat portions of their investigations is wise.
Students should use numerical measurements as much as possible. If the experiment also has qualitative data, like detailed descriptions, they may take a photo or draw a picture as well as describe what happens in the lab notebook.
Whenever possible, students should take pictures of the experiment along the way. These will help them explain later what was done and enhance their project presentation. Pictures should not include researchers or participants faces.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy