Levels of involvement – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Getting startedLevels of involvement
Free educational outreach
Types of projects



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Levels of Involvement
Full-scale science research school
Take the challenge and become a full-scale research school this year! Your students will all practice being problem solvers and improve their ability to think critically and creatively as they all enter a research project into your school fair for a chance to move on to the SARSEF Regional Fair. Teachers can integrate science and engineering practices into any subject. We will help you get started.
Partial school participation
Schools can also have specific classes, grade levels, or extracurricular groups complete projects. A school fair would be held to determine the top projects that would move on to the SARSEF Regional Fair.
Independent Entries
Even if students are not completing science and engineering research projects as part of their in-school curriculum, students may complete their own projects. Students or parents may choose to start science clubs at their school to facilitate this. For PreK-8th grade students, projects will still need to be registered through the school; a school science fair will need to be held if the number of projects completed from that school is greater than the allocation given. High School projects can be registered by the individual and do not need to compete in a school fair.
Become a SARSEF-endorsed school
Each year, SARSEF educators award two K-12 educational institutions that exemplify using STEM curriculum in their classrooms to teach problem-solving and critical thinking the title of SARSEF-endorsed school. Those schools are added to the list of others who have earned this title, assuring parents and caregivers at those schools the quality STEM education that their students are receiving.
 List of SARSEF-endorsed schools
Rubric for Schools









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy