SARSEF Fair – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
Fair Week: February 27 – March 5, 2022
Every year, PreK-12th grade students from across Southern Arizona participate in a SARSEF-affiliated fair, conducting research projects to be considered as a representative of their school at the SARSEF Regional Fair, a week-long competition and celebration of their achievements.
Around 2,000 projects compete at the SARSEF Regional Fair, and over $100,000 in prizes, trips, and scholarships are awarded, thanks to community support. Top high school students move on to international levels of competition.
 How to participate
Important dates






How it works


Getting started
Schools determine their level of participationSchools may sign up for free educational outreachParticipants choose a type of project


Before the SARSEF Regional Fair
Participating schools hold their own science fairProjects are selected for the SARSEF Regional FairProjects are registered for the SARSEF Regional Fair


SARSEF Regional Fair Week
Students are celebrated at Opening CeremoniesProjects are evaluated on Judging DaysAwards Ceremonies are held






Benefits of participation
Creating a research project and participating in the SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair yields many valuable benefits to teachers, schools, students, and parents.  


To teachers and schools
Excellent PR for your schoolMeets the Arizona state science standardsFree programs and professional development to support your efforts


To students
Develops critical thinking and problem-solving skillsUnlocks opportunities networking with STEM professionalsTons of scholarships and prizes


To parents
Develops your child’s project management and presentation skillsInspires your child’s curiosityCreates opportunity for more involvement in your child’s education








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy