Construct explanations and design solutions – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


InterpretationReview the data
Perform calculations
Construct explanations and design solutions



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Construct explanations and design solutions
Data are not evidence until used in the process of supporting a claim. As students review their data and begin to process the graphs and computations they’ve created, they will make a claim based on their observations. They will then use their data as evidence to support their claims. They should present scientific reasoning, principles, and theories to show why those data can be considered evidence to support their claim.
In scientific research, the goal is to present a claim as an explanation for the cause of an observed phenomenon. The student should refer back to the goals and predictions for the investigation and use the collected data to support the claim for how a variable relates to another variable. Conclusions will summarize whether or not a science research project’s results support or contradict the original prediction.
For engineering research, the goal is to solve problems. Rather than explanations, the claim will be presented as a deisgn that best fits their design criteria. Throughout the process, engineers use iterations to systematically define the problem, then generate a prototype, test it, gather data, and then improve solutions, performing another iteration. If the student is doing an engineering or computer-science programming project, their claims, evidence, and reasoning should be in connection to whether or not they met their original design criteria as part of their conclusion.
Cause & effect versus correlation
In some experiments it is not possible to demonstrate that a change in the independent variable causes a change in the dependent variable. Instead, the student may only be able to show that the independent variable is related to the dependent variable in a predictable way. This relationship is called a correlation. This is also an interesting thing for students to wonder about and measure.
If their results show that their predictions were false
Professional scientists and engineers commonly find that results do not support their hypothesis, and they use those unexpected results as the first step in constructing a new prediction.
If the results of the student’s research project did not support their hypothesis, they should reflect on their methods to determine why. If they reliably collected enough data in a consistent manner and the pattern they expected was not found, they can brainstorm what other possible explanations or solutions could exist for the phenomenon or problem studied.
The student should also consider the limitations of their project. It is possible that their methods could be improved in the future to avoid limitations that may have contributed to their results. These considerations further science research even when hypotheses are not supported.
Engaging in argument from evidence
Students can take their claims further by connecting them to scientific concepts. By discussing their findings and how they relate to larger concepts, they are engaging in argumentation. The word “argumentation” may have negative connotations in day-to-day life, however, in the scientific community, it has additional meaning. Argumentation is the process by which explanations and solutions are reached within a greater community of scientists and engineers. By engaging in this manner, students begin to understand the culture in which scientists live. Argumentation becomes a conversation, written and verbal, within a community of scientists and engineers, and can result in progress for the benefit of the world.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy