Before building – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Process
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Before building



While designing and building


After building


Register your team now



 
						Go-karts
					


 
						Rules and resources
					


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Mentor
					


 
						Volunteer
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


ProcessBefore building
While designing and building
After building



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Teachers are oriented to the program and gather their teams
Prospective teachers learn about the program including the cost, schedule, logistics, and expectations for all participants involved. They then gather and register their teams.








Workshops Day
All students attend a comprehensive set of introductory workshops. Industry volunteers and university students lead interactive sessions on the use of solar panels, automotive geometry, structural issues, mechanical design, electrical systems, kart components, and fundraising. Safety is emphasized in all workshops. A video library provides easy access to workshop information throughout the season.








Release forms
Each listed person on the roster and anyone planning to attend Test Day or Race Day as a part of the team must submit their own copy of each waiver. Waivers must be sent in as new team members are added to the team.
 Release waiver and photo image release









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy