STAR Lab – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








STAR Lab
Students Taking Advantage of Research
STAR Lab is a collaboration between SARSEF and the University of Arizona Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology that provides mentorship, consultation, research supplies, and lab space for high school students to complete their own authentic research projects.
 STAR Lab 2021 – 2022
Are you committed to in-depth long-term research?
Do you have 5-10 hours a week to dedicate to a research investigation with a mentor? 
Will you be 16 years of age by September 20, 2021? 
If you answered yes to all these questions, please consider applying to the 2021-22 STAR Lab Program!*
For the 2021-2022 academic year, the STAR Lab Program will be available in-person and remotely. Accepted student researchers interested in participating in-person will work at the STAR Lab in Biosciences West on the University of Arizona campus in Tucson. Alternatively, accepted student researchers may participate in a remote STAR Lab mentorship via Zoom. This means you can live anywhere in the state of Arizona and participate in STAR Lab!
 All STAR Lab student researchers, whether in-person or remote, will participate in a weekly online lab meeting.
*If you will not be 16 years of age by the start date, please email Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org for help finding a mentor to assist in your research investigation.








Apply Today!
Applications for 2021-22 STAR Lab are now open and will close on September 8, 2021.
Important Dates
September 8, 2021 – STAR Lab application closesSeptember 12, 2021 – we will notify applicants of their status and match each student with a mentor September 20, 2021– February 18, 2022 – STAR Lab Program runsFebruary 25, 2022 – March 5, 2022 – Dates of the 2022 SARSEF Fair (All STAR Lab participants will enter their research in the fair)
Application Requirements
A recommendation from one nominating teacher who will support your participation in STAR LabA recommendation from a second teacher who will serve as an additional referenceA completed STAR Lab applicationA 300-word written response to one of the application prompts emailed to Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.orgAn Unofficial Transcript emailed to Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org
Accepted STAR Lab research students will work with their assigned mentors for the duration of the program, meeting at least once a week to collaborate on the research process. This fabulous program will support you as you nourish and grow your inner scientist/engineer!
 Apply Now
Learn More
Download Instructions
Schedule a Consultation to Learn More









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy