Getting help – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Getting help
It is okay for parents, teachers, mentors, etc. to help the student, however, the student should drive the project and be present for everything related to their project.
Parents and caregivers can help their young children with typing. When typing, the child should be sitting next to them and dictating to the parents.
Evidence of original work
To ensure that the student’s work is their own, judges look for evidence of original work. Here are some easy ways to prove the child did the work.
From the very beginning, have the student do some of the work in their own handwriting. Even little ones can make simple lists, draw pictures to represent their ideas and steps, and color in graphs. Although parents/caregivers may later choose to help the child format some of these things in a more final form, these notes and rough drafts should be included in the lab notebook.
Tips for parents
Plan out a section for students to complete each week to help them with pacing and time management.
Children often have a short attention span. If parents are helping their child to plan or conduct a part of the experiment, they should stop when the child reaches their limit of focus time. When this occurs, parents can simple say: “Whew, looks like we need a break. Let’s work on this later. Let me know when you are ready.” Then, parents help to adjust the project schedule and encourage them to resume after a break.
Parents should talk to their child about the project in terms of “your project” and what “you did,” and avoid using “We should …” or “our project is about …” This will help the child take ownership and drive their project. In the end, they can then take pride in their accomplishments.
Every child is an individual. Parents should give as much (or as little) help as each child needs to get the project done.
Keep in mind that every great scientist had a mentor — someone to help and encourage.
 step by step process

Additional Help
SARSEF provides many opportunities to receive mentorship or educational outreach. Whether students need a simple consultation or guided research from beginning to end, our programs create those possibilities.
 view our programs

To inquire about mentorships, please contact Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy