Carry out investigations – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


InvestigationDocument the procedure
Carry out investigations
Collect data



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Carry out investigations
Preparation is key. Students should collect and organize all materials, supplies, and equipment needed to perform their experiment. This includes any tables or charts needed for data collection.
It’s important that students do a preliminary run so they may reflect and revise their methods if necessary. They can also show the preliminary data to a mentor or teacher for feedback. Students should document all revisions to the procedure methods or materials. This is a normal part of developing successful investigative procedures.
Whenever possible, students should run the trials or replicates simultaneously. For example, if they are growing plants, they can put five identical plants (or seeds) in five separate pots as their five replicates in one test group. Other treatment groups or the control group would have replicates in the same manner. If all plants are growing simultaneously, they will all be subject to the same conditions, creating more consistent data.
In experiments that involve surveys of people, multiple trials are not necessary. Instead, the reliability of the survey will depend on the number of people responding to the survey. The ideal sample size depends on what the student is evaluating, but the more respondents the better (SARSEF recommends at least 30 responses to surveys).








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy