Review the data – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


InterpretationReview the data
Perform calculations
Construct explanations and design solutions



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Review the data
Students must look at the results of the experiment with a critical eye and ask themselves these questions:
Is it complete, or did I forget something?Do I need to collect more data?Did I make any mistakes?Do the data answer my primary research question or problem?What additional questions do the data reveal?
If this initial review begs more investigations to be performed, students should revisit that practice.
Once collected, students should spend time with their data, looking for any patterns or relationships. They can begin exploring their raw data, and then organizing it in different ways to extract further meaning (see Perform Calculations). Students should consider what type of graph would best show the relationships that they’re interested in seeing. Whether engaging with data for the purpose of science or engineering, analyzing and interpreting data is an important science and engineering practice.
When reviewing data in engineering projects, engineers analyze a design by creating a prototype and collecting extensive data on how it performs, including under extreme conditions. Analysis of this kind of data informs design decisions and enables the prediction or assessment of performance. It also helps define or clarify problems, determine the feasibility of a design, investigate weaknesses, and evaluate alternatives.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy