Informed consent – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


RulesApproval before experiment
Informed consent
Display and safety rules



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Informed consent of human subjects
All projects with human subjects — regardless of grade level and relationship to the subjects — must have SRC/IRB review. Institutional review boards (IRBs) work similarly to SRCs but review research involving human subjects. A school’s SRC and IRB may consist of the same people. Approval must be obtained, where necessary, before a student starts any experimentation.
Students must fill out all material requested on the SRC & Informed Consent PreK-8 Form or the appropriate ISEF Forms (9-12). Failure to receive approval before experimentation will result in Failure to Qualify for SARSEF, AZSEF, Broadcom, and ISEF.
The process of obtaining informed consent provides information to the subject about the risks and benefits associated with participation in the research study, and allows the subject to make an educated decision about whether or not to participate. Informed consent is an ongoing process, not a single event that ends with a signature on a page. It must incorporate procedures that do not involve coercion or deception.
 IRB Review Form for high school (ISEF Form 4)

 Informed consent form PreK-8

When informed consent is required
When the IRB determines that a research study involves physical or psychological activities with more than minimal riskWhen the IRB determines that the project could potentially result in emotional stress to a research subjectWhen the IRB determines that the research subjects belong to a risk group and the study does not meet any of the criteria below for a waiver
When informed consent is not required
Documentation of informed consent is required for most research projects. However, the IRB may waive the requirement for documentation of written informed consent if the research involves only minimal risk and anonymous data collection and if it is one of the following:
Research involving the observation of legal public behavior.Research involving collection or study of existing publicly available data or records.Research involving normal educational practices.Research on individual or group behavior, or characteristics of individuals where the researcher does not manipulate the subjects’ behavior and the study does not involve more than minimal risk.Surveys and questionnaires that are determined by the IRB to involve perception, cognition or game theory and do NOT involve gathering personal information, invasion of privacy or potential for emotional distress. If there is any uncertainty regarding the appropriateness of waiving informed consent, it is strongly recommended that informed consent be obtained.Studies involving physical activity where the IRB determines that no more than minimal risk exists, and where the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater (in and of themselves) than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during performance of routine physical activities.
Research subjects under 18 years of age
If a research subject is under 18 years of age, it is recommended that, in all cases, informed consent be obtained. Both the parent/legal guardian and the school-age research subject must sign Informed Consent Form (for PreK-8 researchers) and HS ISEF Form 4 (Human Subjects and Informed Consent Form) for high school researchers. However, an IRB may decide that informed consent is not required because of the allowable exceptions listed above. When the IRB waives informed consent of research subjects under the age of 18 for studies involving surveys or questionnaires, documentation justifying this waiver must accompany Informed Consent Form PreK-8 or HS ISEF Form 4.
Documenting informed consent
Consent forms should be copied for each participant’s appropriate signatures and kept in your research journal. They should remain confidential, but may be uploaded as SRC approval for competition at the SARSEF Regional Fair.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy