Document the procedure – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


InvestigationDocument the procedure
Carry out investigations
Collect data



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Document the procedures or methods
In their lab notebook, students should document the goal of their investigation and their predictions. The student should write the experimental procedure like a step-by-step recipe. A good procedure is so detailed and complete that it lets someone else duplicate the experiment exactly. This preparation ensures that the student’s experiment will run smoothly and reduce the chances of encountering avoidable issues.
Students’ written procedures should specify experimental sample size. This is the number of individual samples measured or observed in an experiment. For example, how many plants they intend to grow under the same conditions (replicates) or how many times they plan to throw each paper airplane (trials). The minimum sample size recommended by SARSEF is five per test group, however, the larger the sample size, the more accurate the results will be.
Make a list of materials
The student should make a complete list of materials needed to complete their procedure. This includes items needed for the procedure as well as any safety items, like gloves, eye protection, fire extinguisher, etc.
Make the materials list as specific as possible, and be sure the students can get everything they need before they start their research project.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy