Write a final research report – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


PresentationCreate a project presentation
Write a final research report
Competing at fairs



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Write a final research report
This submission is not required at all science and engineering fairs, but some do require it, especially in the upper divisions. High school students should consider completing one to provide the SARSEF judges with supplemental information and to allow the student to apply for additional competitions.
The final research paper is a in-depth written report describing the student’s thinking and curiosity leading to the original research question or problem, including relevant background information that led to their experimental design. They will incorporate their methods and results from their lab notebook to demonstrate how they went about investigating the phenomenon or problem. It should be roughly 4-10 pages long.
The paper should reflect student research conducted independently, in a small group, or under the mentorship of a research scientist. The paper’s main focus should be the student’s own research and should refer to previously published literature for background and comparative purposes.
Research Papers should include:
Title page, or cover pageAbstractAcknowledgementsTable of ContentsIntroductionMaterials and methodsResultsDiscussion and conclusionsReferences, or literature citedAppendices (optional)








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy