In-School Outreach – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








In-School Outreach
SARSEF teaches PreK-12th grade students the critical thinking and problem-solving skills they need to make a difference using science and engineering. Through hands-on workshops, students are challenged to notice and wonder about the world around them, leading to an investigation of real-life problems and finding solutions that matter.
How do you go from student curiosity to completing a project, all while including state standards? 
During our in-school outreach, a SARSEF educator works with a class for 4 sessions to transform student curiosity into a polished research project. Through these workshops, the class will discuss and identify their interests, select a single research question or problem from the class’s collective curiosities and wonderings, and design a method for gathering data to answer the question.
Our in-school outreach is offered at no cost to schools.
 Schedule a consultation to get started

SARSEF Educators Tailor Programs to your Needs!
Beyond our 4-session workshops, SARSEF educators can tailor our programs to your school’s individual needs!
After a brief consultation, SARSEF educators will help build a plan that works for you. Offerings may include but are not limited to:
Science Fair Basics for first-time educators/schools
Introduce students to the excitement and wonder of science and engineering projects.
High School Research
Engage the entire class in strategies for using observations and natural phenomena to generate ideas and questions. These wonderings can lead to research questions and student-driven investigations, as well as data collection and analysis.
STEM Competitions and What Comes Next
Give teachers, parents, and/or students a window into the world of science and engineering competitions available to high school students. Then, find out how these competitions can help you prepare for STEM beyond high school.
Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
See parents/caregivers and students working together to identify an issue they care about as they are guided through developing a science or engineering research project. Students leave ready to investigate their topic with a roadmap for their research journey and their very own lab notebook. Parents/caregivers take away a better understanding of their supporting role in the process of student research.
Teacher Professional Development
Offer your teachers confidence in teaching standard-based science and engineering processes and practices. Using phenomena-based learning, SARSEF outreach professionals guide teachers on how to engage their students in creating quality science and engineering research projects by identifying meaningful and relevant real-life challenges.
Contact America Miranda at america@sarsef.org with any questions or schedule a consultation to get started.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy