Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Before the SARSEF Regional FairHolding a school fair
Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Registering projects for the SARSEF Regional Fair
 View important dates

Collecting student information
Student information is required for participation. We use student information to notify them of updates to their interview schedule, if they have won an award and/or if they have been selected to participate in further opportunities. Please be sure students’ names are spelled correctly as this is what will go on participation certificates and trophies.
 Sample registration sheet

How SARSEF uses registration information
We do not share contact information with anyone from the public without permission. The SARSEF Regional Fair virtual exhibit hall is accessible to the public and will display students’ names, schools, and awards once the award recipient information goes live. A press release — which may contain winning students’ names, schools, awards, and occasionally photographs — is standard. These uses are assumed to be approved through the school’s release authority.
We do not release home phone numbers or email addresses for use to the press without your express permission.
Uploading projects
When registering projects, you will also upload the students’ digital project presentation. This can be done all at once, or you may begin the registration and return to upload the files. Before uploading, you should ensure that the project pdf does not contain the students’ name.
What to upload
Project presentation pdf file (10MB or less)SRC paperwork (as needed)Research paper (2MB or less)Lab journal pages
 project presentation requirements

Fees
Registration is a suggested $10 per project and may be paid online or mailed to SARSEF 4574 E Broadway Blvd, Tucson, AZ 85711.
Projects submitted after the registration deadline are not guaranteed to show at the Fair. If your school fair timing or another conflict will cause a registration delay, contact SARSEF in advance to request an extension.
Please make certain all of your project and personal information are correct upon submitting to SARSEF. Data correction is time consuming and cannot be guaranteed. This includes title wording, category, grade, addresses, telephone, email, gender, teacher information, and removing personal information from project slides. A fee of $10 will be assessed for any certificates and trophy plates that have to be reprinted due to an error in data entry. In case of SARSEF error, a fee will not be assessed.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy