Develop and use models – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


PreparationAsk questions and identify problems
Develop and use models
Plan investigations



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Develop and use models
A scientific model can be made to represent a system the student is trying to better understand. Models can take a variety of forms, like physical recreations, simulations, diagrams, flow charts, mathematical processes, etc. (Ex: a mock-up of a boat’s rudder system or a computer simulation showing the relationship of different wildlife populations). They are not an exact representation of conditions in the real world, but they are helpful tool in that they allow the student to focus on certain aspects of their topic. It is important for the student to recognize the limitations of their models.
While models are not science projects on their own, they can be a helpful tool while students conduct their projects to assist in the development of predictions or brainstorm solutions. They can also be used to collect data or communicate ideas.
Making adjustments
Models or prototypes should be refined through iterations as students compare their predictions with the real world and then adjust them to gain insights into the phenomenon being studied. When new evidence is uncovered that the models can’t explain, models are adjusted. In engineering, models may be used to analyze a system to see where or under what conditions flaws might develop, or test possible solutions to a problem. Models can also be used to visualize and refine a design, to communicate a design’s features to others, and as prototypes for testing design performance.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy