Go-karts – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Process
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Before building



While designing and building


After building


Register your team now



 
						Go-karts
					


 
						Rules and resources
					


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Mentor
					


 
						Volunteer
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Go-karts
Racing the Sun is a rigorous and challenging program. The student teams must compete under a set of rules designed to promote competition fairness. All teams are provided with identical solar panels and may compete using one of three types of go-karts:
Standard Kart
The Standard Kart uses a pre-fabricated steel frame chassis. This kart is great for first-year teams, schools with less technical expertise, or those lacking specialized facilities and equipment. The standard kart chassis is not meant to be modified.
Modified (Legacy) Kart
The legacy kart is a standard kart provided previous to the 2021-2022 season and can be modified or unmodified from its original form.
Maker Kart
The Maker Kart is for experienced teams who want to build a kart from the ground up. They design and purchase their own materials. Teams building maker karts require specialized facilities, tools, and expertise. They must submit their designs for approval prior to fabrication ensuring compliance with all competition rules and safety protocols.
 Competition rules









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy