Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
The Junior Science and Humanities Symposium (JSHS) Program is a national competition promoting original research and experimentation in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) at the high school level and publicly recognizes students for outstanding achievement.
Each year, 4,500 students participate in 48 regional symposia to qualify for the national symposium. JSHS awards $408,000 in undergraduate tuition scholarships annually to regional and national student finalists.
JSHS is one of the nation’s longest-running STEM competitions. It is a collaborative effort between the research arm of the Department of Defense (DoD) and nationwide academic research institutions and is administered by the National Science Teaching Association (NSTA).
How it Works
Students attend Arizona JSHS as presenters or observers. The symposium is a two-day conference, with qualifying students presenting their research to a panel of judges and symposium attendees in a 12-minute presentation. Judges ask clarifying questions and score the students on presentation skills as well as the quality of their research. The top students from the preliminary round then proceed to the final round of presentations.
Five students are selected at Arizona JSHS to attend National JSHS. Arizona’s first and second-place winners present their research at the National JSHS Symposium to compete for top prizes. Third through fifth-place winners present at the symposium’s poster session.
Email Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org for more information.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy