Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Before the SARSEF Regional FairHolding a school fair
Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Selecting students for the SARSEF Regional Fair
Each school should hold its own science fair. Top projects from this fair will advance to the SARSEF Regional Fair. In many schools, judging is completed by school personnel, including teachers, specialists, and administrators. Judging teams are formed so that teachers are not evaluating their own students’ projects. Judges may also be experts from outside organizations, however, we recommend that they are paired up with school personnel, so teachers can provide context on appropriate expectations for achievement level.
Many schools use judging criteria similar to those used by SARSEF Regional Fair judges. These criteria can be modified to fit individual school needs. The following forms reflect criteria used at the SARSEF Regional Fair.
Judging criteria forms used at SARSEF Regional Fair
 Elementary school judging criteria
Middle school judging criteria
High School judging criteria

In most cases, the judging results are turned in to the School Fair Director for final placements. The Fair Director, Chief Judge, or other school official should then determine which projects will advance to the SARSEF Regional Fair.
Allocations
For elementary and middle schools (grades PreK-12), there is a limit to how many projects a school can register for the SARSEF Regional Fair. Generally, the number of projects per school is between 10-20, depending on school size, grade level, and level of involvement. 
For high schools there are no allocation limits. Schools are allowed to send as many projects as are considered of high quality by the school. We want as many as possible to have the opportunity to compete for scholarships and large prizes.
Allocation numbers are automatically adjusted annually based on previous years. Significant changes in school size or focus should be reported. New schools participating for the first time should email director@sarsef.org and include:
Your school nameSize of your ENTIRE school (number of students)Grade levels that your school serves (not just grades participating in your school fair)Level of participationAny additional information regarding your school that may be helpful (gifted programs, magnet, STEM-focused, serving a specific demographic, etc.)
Decisions for allocations are based on the SARSEF Regional Fair capacity, as well as the growing number of schools requesting to come to the Fair.
We do everything possible to include as many projects from each school as possible, however, if you feel there are extenuating circumstances, you may appeal your allocation decision.
Please contact us with any questions about your school’s allocation number.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy