SARSEF – Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.
SARSEF’s mission is creating Arizona’s future critical thinkers and problem solvers through science and engineering.
 Our mission





160
schools participated in SARSEF’s goal to provide quality STEM education to students in the 2020 – 2021 school year      
54,000
        Arizona students participated in one or more of SARSEF’s critical thinking programs in the 2020 – 2021 school year      
$127,534
        in scholarships and awards to students to attract and retain their interest in STEM fields in 2021      






SARSEF programs teach critical thinking
Every SARSEF program uniquely prepares students for the future by giving them the tools and support they need to think like scientists and engineers, opening up career opportunities and helping them become informed citizens.
Workshops and OutreachCompetitionsSTEM ExplorationMentoringTeacher Professional Development
 View all programs






 

SARSEF’s impact
Students from SARSEF go on to become our neurosurgeons, cancer researchers, engineers, wildlife conservationists, veterinarians, teachers and professors, journalists, and so much more – all professions that require the critical thinking skills SARSEF provides.




27,815
students directly benefit from SARSEF’s in-school programs in the 2020 – 2021 school year      
15%
higher state test scores at schools that participate in SARSEF programs      
71%
        of participating students are from areas of poverty 






Your contribution matters
We need your help to create Arizona’s future critical thinkers and problem solvers through science and engineering – now more than ever.
Every student we inspire to ask questions about the world around them, every teacher and parent we support, begins with you. When you donate to SARSEF, you make it possible for all Arizona students to have the opportunity to think critically and solve problems using science and engineering.
 Donate now
Ways to give







Stay in touch – subscribe to our newsletter
Get all the SARSEF news and updates right to your inbox!
Find out first about program updatesLearn what SARSEF students are up toGet all of our best newsLearn how to get involved










Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy