Judges – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Judges
Grand awards judges
Judge for SARSEF and decide who will be the First, Second, and Third Place Winners!
If you want to help us select the best projects in a specific category, please sign up to be a “grand award” judge. You will use our criteria to select projects in your favorite grade level (Grades PreK-12) which is modeled after criteria used at the international science fair.
Judges at the high school level should be professionals in their fields (at least three to five years experience preferred) and/or be in the process of obtaining or hold advanced (master’s or doctoral) degrees. Middle school judges should hold a bachelor’s degree, and have some experience in their field, or teach in the selected area. Elementary school judges must have a high school education, with some experience with the age level selected, and/or interest in the field selected.
Sponsored awards judges
If you or your company is awarding a specific prize in the SARSEF Science and Engineering Fair, you have the opportunity to serve as a “sponsored award” judge. You will evaluate projects and then select the project that you wish to award the prize related to your company or organization’s focus.
Please contact Julie Euber at julie@sarsef.org for more information about how to become a judge at our next science and engineering competition. 








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy