Mentors – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Mentors
Mentorship is a key factor in the success of student scientists and engineers, and SARSEF staff continue to recruit volunteers who can provide opportunity and guidance to the many students excited to get involved in research.
A mentor is a volunteer who typically has a research component to their career or studies. While some are established in their careers, others are currently working on earning their degree. The common factor among all mentors is a dedication to helping the next generation explore and succeed in career paths related to their work.
Mentors support students by providing guidance throughout the process of planning, doing, and reporting out on a research project. They offer academic and career advice as well as access to the resources and knowledge students need to pursue their work. We utilize mentors in our STAR Lab as well as part of our Racing the Sun engineering program. 
If you are interested in becoming a mentor to a high school student as they conduct research in a science, technology, engineering, or math field, reach out to Margaret Wilch at margaret@sarsef.org.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy