After building – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Process
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Before building



While designing and building


After building


Register your team now



 
						Go-karts
					


 
						Rules and resources
					


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Mentor
					


 
						Volunteer
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


ProcessBefore building
While designing and building
After building



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Test Day
All participants conduct trial runs to qualify their karts for Race Day. The event includes safety and regulation checks, driver training and gear checks, and an opportunity to see the competition and test their go-karts in the same conditions they will experience on Race Day.








Team presentations
Participants use videoconferencing to present their work to a panel of industry judges. Students describe the challenges they have faced in designing their go-karts, defend their design decisions, and outline the lessons learned as they worked on their karts throughout the year. This event showcases the accomplishments of the students and highlights the learning outcomes in front of potential future employers.








Race Day
Racing the Sun culminates with a final competition at Musselman Honda Circuit in Tucson. The event is open to the public. Families, educators, sponsors, and mentors are invited to cheer on the teams as they engage in friendly rivalry on a professional racetrack. Awards are given in a variety of categories including speed, endurance, innovation, and spirit. The coveted Grand Champion Award is given to the team that scores the most points over the entire course of the program.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy