Approval before experiment – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


RulesApproval before experiment
Informed consent
Display and safety rules



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Approval before experiment
Scientists and engineers need to receive approval from a scientific review committee (SRC) and/or an institutional review board (IRB) before conducting experiments. This ensures that their investigations are safe and ethical. Projects submitted to the SARSEF Regional Fair require the same approval so that students gain the experience of creating a safe, ethical investigation by adhering to the same standards utilized by the scientific community.
Any student that does not receive appropriate approval when required may not qualify for the SARSEF Regional Fair.
Scientific review committees
An SRC is a group of doctors, scientists, and other experts that review the detailed plan of investigative research. They evaluate the proposed research plan for quality, compliance, safety, and ethics.
Schools are encouraged to form their own scientific review committee
A school’s SRC should consist of three adults (usually a science teacher, an administrator or designee, and a health professional such as a counselor or nurse). School SRCs do not need to send the forms to SARSEF before approving, but may if they have questions or cannot make a final determination.
Schools should follow the guidelines set by the Society for Science.
 Guidelines for a school SRC

The SARSEF SRC/IRB
The SARSEF SRC/IRB (Scientific Review Committee/Institutional Review Board) is a group of professionals that approves projects according to the requirements, and the committee has access to University of Arizona faculty who serve as adjunct members. They also have access to other specialty faculty if there are questions of safety beyond the committee’s expertise. The official SARSEF SRC will evaluate all high school projects prior to the Fair.
What SRCs will be looking for
Specific items SRC members consider in reviewing a project include:
evidence of library/literary search (Internet, journals, books, etc.)evidence of proper supervisionuse of accepted research techniquescompleted forms, signatures and datesevidence of search for alternatives to animal usehumane treatment of animalscompliance with rules and laws governing proper care and housing of animalsappropriate use of devices and activitiesappropriate/safe handling and use of recombinant DNA, potentially pathogenic organisms, tissues and hazardous substancesadequate documentation of substantial expansion in projects that have been continued from previous years
Projects that need SRC approval
It is imperative that all projects (PreK-12) involving any of the following obtain project approval by an SRC prior to starting the project:
non-human vertebrate animalsanimal/human tissuerecombinant DNApathogenshuman subjectscontrolled substanceshazardous substanceshazardous devices
Mold and bacteria projects
Mold
Bread mold projects may be allowed at home only if the study is stopped as soon as the mold is seen. (In other words, as soon as mold starts to grow, the bread is thrown away.)
Bacteria
At NO time is bacteria culturing allowed at home. Samples may be collected at home or in the environment, but they must then be taken to a laboratory (school or lab) to be grown. Please review ISEF rules for specifics regarding the type of bacteria that can be grown in a BSL 1 lab.
 biosafety level required per substance

Outcomes of review
Upon reviewing a project, the SRC arrives at one of three decisions:
Approval
If a project is approved, the SRC chairperson signs the appropriate forms and returns paperwork to students as soon as possible, so that they can begin their project.
Disapproval
The SRC chairperson will provide the student and sponsor with a list of reasons for disapproval, and suggestions for changes needed for approval. If suitable corrections are made, the revised project forms should be re-submitted for reviewed. If the project is approved, the student will be told immediately so that they can begin their project.
NOT allowed
Some projects are unethical or should not be done by PreK-12 students. Examples would include projects designed to kill vertebrate animals, toxicity studies using vertebrate animals, improper treatment of animals, proposed use of potential pathogens at home, and lack of appropriate supervision. The SRC will notify the student promptly and provide them with a complete list of reasons the project may not be done.
Required forms
Grades PreK-8
For Grades PreK-8, schools should form their own SRC Committee and make decisions according to the guidelines. If this is completed, the forms do not need to be sent to SARSEF directly. SARSEF SRC can be contacted if there are any questions or a final determination cannot be reached.
 Grades PreK-8 SRC approval form

High school
All high school projects require some forms. The Rules Wizard from the Society for Science will guide students through a series of questions about their project to help them determine exactly what forms they will need to submit for review.
Projects that require SRC approval before the project begins must submit the forms to either their School SRC or SARSEF SRC. Important: Submit early, and allow two weeks for processing, as the volume of applications increases as the year goes on.
 Learn which forms you need
View all forms

If the student’s school does not have an SRC, their forms should be submitted to the SARSEF SRC at src@sarsef.org.
Additional assistance
Students or school SRCs may reach out to the SARSEF SRC with additional questions about forms or approvals.
To contact the SARSEF SRC, please email src@sarsef.org.








Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy