Our Mission – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 


 SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.




 
						Our Mission
					



 
								Programs
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Competitions



								SARSEF Regional Science and Engineering Fair
							



								Racing the Sun
							



								Arizona Junior Science and Humanities Symposium
							




Workshops and outreach



								In-School Outreach
							



								Roadmap to a Rockin’ Project
							



								Teacher Professional Development
							




STEM exploration



								Arizona STEM Adventure
							



								ACES Camp
							



								STAR Lab
							







 
								Volunteer
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



General Volunteers



Judges


Mentors


Exhibitors




 
						Log In
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Corporate Sponsorship


Contribute a Sponsored Award


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


Our site is currently under construction
Need help?





 

We create Arizona’s future critical thinkers and problem solvers through science and engineering
With SARSEF, children don’t have to wait to become scientists or engineers. With curiosity as their guide, they can start asking questions they care about and use science and engineering to find solutions that are meaningful to them, and even, the world.
Through this exploration of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), students gain critical thinking and problem-solving skills that are important for whatever career they choose.
SARSEF focuses on engaging student populations underrepresented in the fields of STEM. We prioritize creating opportunity in schools in areas of poverty (as defined by Title I designations).
We foster communities of support for students in STEM by building the confidence and toolboxes of some of their greatest advocates – teachers and caregivers. Our educators travel to schools and community centers throughout the state to provide student outreach, teacher professional development, and parent workshops at no cost to Title I schools.
Everything we do is guided by our organizational values
Innovation
We are creative and constantly evolving to best serve our community by challenging norms and assumptions.
Equity
We ensure each child has the support and opportunity needed to envision and realize their goals, aspirations, and potential.
Engagement
We engage whole communities in our mission to activate STEM learning that promotes critical thinking and problem solving by all children.
 Read more in our annual report





98.3%
        of teachers were able to integrate state standards for math and science as their students worked on their research projects      
98%
        of students say projects encourage them to ask more questions or solve more problems in the future      
70%
        of students participating in SARSEF Science and Engineering Fair are from areas of poverty 






Your contribution matters
We need your help to create Arizona’s future critical thinkers and problem solvers through science and engineering – now more than ever.
Every student we inspire to ask questions about the world around them, every teacher and parent we support, begins with you. When you donate to SARSEF, you make it possible for all Arizona students to have the opportunity to think critically and solve problems using science and engineering.
 Donate now
Ways to give









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy