Competing at fairs – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


PresentationCreate a project presentation
Write a final research report
Competing at fairs



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Submit a project presentation
After participating in their school fair, students may qualify to advance to the SARSEF Regional Fair.
 Registering for the SARSEF Regional Fair

Files to submit
Students should send their project presentation pdf, required SRC forms, journal pages, and research paper (if desired) to the person registering projects for the school (at the high school level, this may be the student themselves).
Description
Students will need to provide a project description that will be entered as part of registration for the SARSEF Regional Fair. This should be a summary of their project consisting of 250 words or less.
Interviews at the SARSEF Fair
Throughout the week, projects will be evaluated by judging teams and award recipients will be determined. According to the judging schedule for the week, students will have the opportunity to be interviewed over Zoom.
For grades PreK-8, interviews with judges are optional, but highly encouraged for grades 6-8 as it can be the most impactful and memorable part of the fair for students.
For grades 9 through 12, interviews are required. Please excuse them from class to participate in these interviews.
Interview tips
In preparation for interviews, students should:
Practice a very short summary (30-60 seconds) to tell people when they ask, “Tell me about your project.”Develop a list of questions they think the judges will ask them and practice answering them.Make good use of the project presentation. Refer directly to diagrams and graphs when discussing them.Speak clearly and confidently when answering questions. If a student has no idea what the judge is asking, or does not know the answer to the question, it is okay to say “I do not know.”Use simple terms when speaking about their project so anyone can understand it.Be positive and enthusiastic.Dress nicely for the science fair judging period.
 judging criteria









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy