Ask questions and identify problems – SARSEF





























Skip to content


menu



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.

Donate




 
				SARSEF.org
			


 
				SARSEF Fair
			


 
				Racing the Sun
			

 



SARSEF
Every child. Thinking critically. Solving problems.





 
								Participate
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Getting started



								Levels of involvement
							



								Free educational outreach
							



								Types of projects
							




Before the SARSEF Regional Fair



								Holding a school fair
							



								Selecting projects for the SARSEF Fair
							



								Registering projects for the SARSEF Fair
							




SARSEF Regional Fair Week



								Opening Celebrations
							



								Project judging
							



								Awards ceremonies
							




Other competitions





 
								Create a project
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Imagination



								Determine team size
							



								Start a lab notebook
							



								Choose a topic
							




Preparation



								Ask questions and identify problems
							



								Develop and use models
							



								Plan investigations
							




Investigation



								Document the procedure
							



								Carry out investigations
							



								Collect data
							




Interpretation



								Review the data
							



								Perform calculations
							



								Construct explanations and design solutions
							




Presentation



								Create a project presentation
							



								Write a final research report
							



								Competing at fairs
							




Judging criteria



Getting help


Step by step process



 
								Rules
								arrow_drop_down

arrow_drop_down



Approval before experiment



Informed consent


Display and safety rules


 
						Important dates
					



 
						Volunteer
					


 
						Judge
					



 
								Donate
							
arrow_drop_down



Ways to Give



Contribute a Sponsored Award


Corporate Sponsorship


Current Donors and Sponsors


 


PreparationAsk questions and identify problems
Develop and use models
Plan investigations



Our site is currently under construction
Need help?








Ask questions and identify problems
As students explore a question or topic further, they may ask additional questions or identify related problems. These could be something they notice and wonder about the world around them, regarding texts they’ve read, data sets, observations of models shown in class, or springing off of results from their investigations. Whether pursuing a science or engineering project, students should explore these leads to generate ideas for a primary research question or problem.
Background research
Successful scientists and engineers build upon each others’ work. Students should employ multiple sources to obtain information used to evaluate the merit and validity of claims, methods, and designs. Familiarizing themselves with what research exists will help them develop their research question and design prototypes.
Students may also network with other people with more experience than them: mentors, parents and teachers. Have them ask, “What science concepts should I study to better understand my topic?” and “What area of science covers my project?”
The ability to understand and interpret scientific and technical texts is an important aspect of science and engineering. Through conducting background research, students are developing the important skills of viewing scientific or technological reports (whether found in the press, the Internet, or in a town meeting) and recognizing important ideas, identifying sources of error, distinguishing observations from inferences, arguments from explanations, and claims from evidence.
Determine a primary research question or problem
Finally, students should determine a testable research question or problem as their primary focus and brainstorm how they might discover the answer or present solutions to the problem.
While honing in on their primary question or problem, they be sure should their topic:
Is interesting enough to research and work on for weeksIs possible and affordableHas at least three sources of reliable research on the subject so that student researchers build on the experience of othersCan be tested by designing an empirical method of collecting data that can be used as evidence









Contact us
director@sarsef.org
520-273-8259

4574 E. Broadway BlvdTucson, AZ 85711


 
 
 
 

About usAnnual Report
Careers at SARSEF
Our History
Can’t find something?
Search our website



search


 
© SARSEF 2021 
Privacy policy