SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-BE028
What are the Effects of Stress on the Mind and Body?
Behavioral and Social Science

Savannah N Mendivil
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Elyse Wexler

Emotional stress can affect already pre-existing conditions. For example, in the study by BMC Ophthalmology, they proved that emotional stress affected Glaucoma in patients. But with medication and therapy, some effects were able to be reversed with medication and therapy.?

Stress, whether it be emotional, mental, and physical, affects the mind and the body. In the study done by Frontiers in Cellular Neuroscience. It showed that stress can affect memory. Sometimes in a good way, and sometimes bad. In the article they explained “The results showed that both stress and corticosterone were able to enhance memory consolidation when they were administered immediately after training. However, when the same treatments were administered three hours after training, there was not a significant change in the performance during the test carried out after twenty-four hours.” So, if used correctly stress can actually IMPROVE short term memory, but in most cases not.?

Some people are better at managing stress than others. Some people work well under it, and some don’t. Whether or not you are one of those people who handles stress better, stress still will affect you. So, we need to be able to identify what is stressing us, how to minimize/or avoid it all together, and if we cannot avoid/minimize it, have good coping mechanisms.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

This is everyone's life today, good job on the making a very well executed idea and making it into a great project about stress and relief - Venkata Manikonda
Stress, mind, and body are so important to study.  Thank you for your work on this!  Mrs. Wexler
So interesting!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting