SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award, Classroom Project: Success in Engineering, Critical Thinking Excellence in Science and Engineering, Excellence in Scientific Research, Innovative Thought in Engineering or Science

6-EA101-C
Farewell Feathered Friends: Southern Arizona Drought and Temperature Extremes
Earth and Environmental Science

Kelly Smith Class
Grade:
6

Teacher:
Kelly Smith

Tucson, Arizona continues to experience an increase in days with extreme heat. Heatwave frequency, intensity, and duration are expected to increase. What impact has this had on wildlife living in our state? 
At the beginning of this school year, 6th graders were challenged to solve a problem facing the school's farmyard. During many days with excessively high heat temperatures, it was a struggle to keep our farm friends cool. Heatstroke is a problem facing chickens living in southern Arizona. Students researched solutions to help minimize the risk for heat stress. 
Experiment and shelter prototype design focused on energy transfer/kinetic energy, heat energy, conduction, convection, radiation, thermal equilibrium, 2nd Law of Thermodynamic, isn't Physics cool? :-D
Then along came a predator.. and then another and another. We have far fewer farm friends as a result. From 2020 to current, there has been an increase in Arizona predator visits. Why? Is changing climate to blame? We are back to the drawing board seeking ways to protect our farm friends from predators and improve their shelters as we prepare for yet another scorching HOT Tucson summer.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

What a great class and teacher using the farmyard as a source for some awesome experimentation and rapid prototyping! And what a great problem to solve, keeping your animals comfortable in the heat!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting