SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award

4-CH004
Juicy, Jiggly, Jittery Spheres - The Effects of High and Low pH Levels and Sodium Citrate on Spherification
Chemical Sciences

Luca McGill
Grade:
4

Teacher:
Nancy Steinke

1. The purpose of this project is to successfully produce liquid spheres, to calculate the acceptable pH level range for the selected liquids, and to find out if and how the pH affects the sphere’s quality. The results come from measuring the dimensions of the spherical juice balls and by calculating their average size. A ranking system is established to determine the differences in the quality of the liquid spheres based on the change in pH.

2. Molecular Gastronomy is on the rise. People are willing to pay the price for a unique dining experience. Seeing chefs on cooking shows turn just about any drink or pureed food into small spheres is cool. The science behind it all is even more exciting than eating the food spheres. I wanted to examine the process and determine the perfect scientific conditions for spherification. Can spherification work at home without paying the price of a high-end meal in a five-star restaurant?

3. The pH of the liquids chosen for my experiments needs to be in the range between 4.0 and 6.2 in order for spherification to work. Jellification will not occur if the pH of the liquid is too low or too high. Fortunately, low pH can be corrected by the addition of sodium citrate to lower the acidity as proven in my experiment. The pH level also affects the quality of the spherical juice balls. At low pH they don’t form, but rip apart. At high pH spheres don’t form, because the jellification doesn't happen enough, and any shapes that form don't hold together when removed from the CaCl2 bath. I was surprised to discover that nutritional calcium is an important mineral to watch when choosing foods for spherification.

4. Molecular science, spherification, and its relation to pH levels can be used to investigate medicine and human biology, specifically how blood clotting works, and how it is affected in people with blood clotting disorders.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

So COOL! I saw this once and have wanted to try it! How did they taste?  Great job!!
What a great project! Very detailed!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting