SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
Outstanding Research in Psychological Science

7-BE008
Remote Learning vs. Gender
Behavioral and Social Science

Caitlin Hurley
Grade:
7

Teacher:
Kim Bennett

1. This project explores if remote learning has affected middle school boys and girls in the same manner. I chose to survey 6th-8th grade students and ask about their experiences with remote learning. I distributed the survey to friends and middle school teachers.
2. Attending school remotely this year had me wondering the impact remote learning had on males and females in middle school. For me personally, online learning has helped my grades and did not negatively impact them.
3. My overall results confirmed middle school males had a higher percent of worse grades during remote learning than middle school females. Males in middle school also had a higher percent of better grades during online learning than middle school females. In conclusion, my hypothesis was partially correct because 45% of middle school boys reported their grades are worse during remote learning compared to 40% of middle school girls who reported their grades being worse. The boys reported an increased amount of time on video games or social media, did not correlate to boys reporting having worse grades. Thus my hypothesis about boys being more distracted with video games and social media was incorrect.
4. This project is important because students across the country have had their normal teaching and learning disrupted due to the pandemic.  The impact the pandemic has on students is going to be something that will be researched for years to come.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Very relatable and interesting topic! I wonder what other factors interfere with remote learning. Great work!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting