SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award, Grace under Pressure Award

HS-EA021
Fast Fashion on Photosynthesis
Earth and Environmental Science

Esperanza Guizar, Rodrigo Guizar Jr.
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Patricia Garcia

1. Fast Fashion on Photosynthesis is about the environmental impact that microfibers have on photosynthesis. We tested how distilled water, new clothing water, and thrifted clothing water would affect the rate at which spinach leaf disks would rise in our photosynthetic experiment. We wanted to measure exactly how much these pollutants released from clothing affected photosynthesis. 
2. I (partner 1) chose this project because in our AP Environmental Science class we were learning about Earth's indicators. One of them was resource depletion. The fast fashion industry is one of the biggest depleters of water, so we chose to have the microfibers released via water. I’ve always been into the fashion trends, so I wanted to investigate how much of an impact clothing has on our plants/foods. I (partner 2) volunteer at a nonprofit thrift store and seeing the amount of clothes thrown away made me wonder how it affects the environment when disposed of. 
3. The regular distilled water had the fastest rate of photosynthesis, then thrifted water clothing, and the slowest rate of photosynthesis went to the new clothing water. We concluded that microfibers did have an effect on the photosynthesis rate. 
4. Microfibers are making their way up to our dinner tables. Microfibers get absorbed by producers/autotrophs and work their way up the food chain until our bodies are full of these pollutants. The microfibers can have harsh chemicals that harm the species lives that find itself in contact with it. Microfibers are not biodegradable, so they have a lasting impact on this Earth. Knowing the effect of these microfibers can allow us to find solutions on preventing them from being released into our waters. If we are able to prevent microfibers from being released, it can prevent lung issues, body contamination, ocean pollution, and agricultural depletion.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Your project was well done and nicely presented.
Please consider entering your project into the Stockholm Junior Water prize competition https://www.wef.org/resources/for-the-public/SJWP/
Talented, brilliant, incredible, amazing, show-stopping, spectacular, never the same, totally unique.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting