SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-PS004
Propagation, Restoration & Insulation
Plant Science

Zedekiah Jones, Gabe Sensibar
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Jeremy Jonas

KW: Micropropagation, botany, tissue culture, conservation, habit restoration, plant sciences, tradencantia, Portulacaria afra,  cylindropuntia fulgida, cylindropuntia lepotcaulis, opuntia ficus-indica, 
epipremnum aureum

The problem, more and more of the native plants in southern Arizona are becoming
extinct or critically endangered because of urbanizing and other human influence such as
invasive species and mining. Our research hybridizes the need for more biodiversity, and
the need for cheaper greener solutions needed for roofing materials. Our question is,
“Can we use micropropagation solutions to help increase biodiversity and supply demand
for cheaper and greener roofing materials.” Our hypothesis is that we will be able to find
a greener solution for roofing materials and by practicing micropropagation we will be
able to eventually supply this demand. For most of our research we used the basic MS
media with the Plant Growth Regulators (PGR’s) and added sucrose in 50ml falcon tubes
that were sealed in a biosafety cabinet with the explant suspended in the media. As a
comparison we used sphagnum moss propagation to see which had more use in the
future. To test the insulation properties of the native moss Selaginella arizonica w e used
4 of the same sized boxes, two with different stages of the moss, and the other one with
dirt, the final one as the control. At the beginning of the research we quickly found out
micropropagation was not as easy as we originally thought it was going to be and we
ended up getting the idea for the insulation properties much later into this research. the
eventual uses for this research include the wider spread conservation efforts and more
sustainable and greener ways to build roofs in the future
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

good  job Ilearnd   so   much   thank  you!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting