SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award

6-CH010
Poppin’ Popcorn
Chemical Science

Kianna Alvarez
Grade:
6

Teacher:
MariAnn Slater

1. My project is about finding out which brands of microwavable popcorn have the
most popped kernels.I want to do this experiment because when I am having a
slumber party with my friends I don’t want to serve them popcorn with too many
unpopped kernels.The information from this experiment could help others from
buying a microwavable popcorn brand that is expensive and yet comes with less
popcorn.
2. I chose this project because my parents love popcorn and I wanted to do a
test on which microwavable popcorn brand has the most popped kernels
just in case the one we use is not the one with the most popped kernels
3. The result/overall conclusion is the best popcorn with the most popped
kernels is Jolly Time with an average of 92.4%, in second place is
PopSecret with an average of 86.5%, in third place is Orville Redenbacher’s
with an average of 83.2%, in fourth place is Kroger with an average of
82.8%, and in fifth place with least amount of popped kernels is Simple
Truth Organic with an average of 76.1%.The brands with most unpopped
kernels are Simple Truth Organic with an average of 23.9%, in second place
is Kroger with an average of 17.2%, in third place is Orville Redenbacher's
with an average of 16.8%, in fourth place is PopSecret with an average of
13.5%, in fifth place is Jolly Time with an average of 7.6%.
4. My project is important because when I am having a slumber party with my
friends I don’t want to serve them popcorn with too many unpopped kernels.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Yum - makes me rethink what popcorn to buy. I like your methodology.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting