SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award, SARSEF Board of Directors Award

HS-EA002
Structural Interpretation of Raplee Ridge Monocline Utilizing Remote Sensing Techniques and Point Cloud Data
Earth and Environmental Science

Esai N. Quintero
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Jeremy Jonas

Remote Sensing, Geology, Point clouds, stereonets 
1. This project focuses on utilizing remote sensing technique to extract key structural information at Raplee Ridge monocline through millions of georeferenced points (point cloud).
2. Though this is a mentored project, I found the beauty behind science I have never been exposed to. Though it is difficult to understand at times, I was able to succesfully complete research and find meaning behind what I did.
3.Raplee ridge monocline  can be classified by its axial trace which this research has determined to have a westward trend of 201° and a southern plunge of 8°. 
With this knowledge, we can conclude that this structure 50-80 million years ago, eastward horizontal paleostress formed what geologists refer to as Laramide Uplifts (deformation). 
We characterize these uplifts by having a north-south trend which we can clearly see with a dip of 8°.  Raplee ridge is a clear product of laramide related paleostress. 
4.lassifying a fold's geometry by its axial trace and axial plane orientations gives insight into the paleostress that caused the structure to evolve millions of years ago. 
This analysis has considered the Laramide state of stress 50 - 80 million years ago by remotely analyzing one of the structures that formed during that tectonic event.
Methods of extraction with this specific project pave a way to a more practical way of imaging and collecting data. This emergence of point clouds can also provide a basis of understanding and application for other science fields that require imaging at the 3D extraction level.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

What a nice example of trying out a new area of interest and finding rewards in looking at the world differently!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting