SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
SARSEF Board of Directors Award, Stockholm Junior Water Prize Regional Award

HS-EA001
"Diet-biome" of the Invasive Northern Crayfish in Arizona: Identifying Fish Within Stomach Contents
Earth and Environmental Science

Tristin Anaya, Janessa Gurley
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Jeremy Jonas

Keywords: Ecology, wildlife management, conservation biology, conservation genetics, genome sequencing, environmental science 

Our project was conducted in collaboration with the lab of Dr. Melanie Culver. The project identifies on a species level the stomach contents (prey-items) of the Northern Crayfish in Arizona’s ecosystems. This project focuses on three lakes; San Pedro, Gila river, and Rose Canyon River, we are identifying the 12s and 16s genes of the stomach contents of the crayfish at these locations. Then we will compare the results with the population and type of native fish at each location. Depending on the results, we will draw a conclusion as to whether or not the Northern Crayfish are posing a threat to the native fish species. We chose this project because of the focus on wildlife conservation, with all of the recent ecological changes occurring in the world, a lot of organisms are becoming endangered. The goal of this project is to determine if the Northern Crayfish are posing a threat to the native species of fish in Arizona. This project is important because Northern Crayfish are an invasive species and can be endangering the native species and ecosystem.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Looked like a very fun research project and it presented many more future areas of study.
Your project has lots of potential to help us understand rare and endangered species.  Good work!
Please consider entering your project into the Stockholm Junior Water prize competition https://www.wef.org/resources/for-the-public/SJWP/

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting