SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
2nd Place Grand Award, Future Leaders in Sustainability and Social Justice, Hydrological Society Award, Outstanding Achievement  for Scientific Excellence in Atmospheric, Oceanic or Hydrologic Sciences

HS-EA005
A Synthesis of Indian Monsoon Records Over the Last Glacial Cycle: Insights from the Bay of Bengal
Earth and Environmental Science

Ellis Selznick
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Jeremy Jonas

Keywords: Climate Change, Global Warming, Paleoclimatology, foraminifera, Microfossils

- The project uses foraminifera, single cellular microfossils, to gauge the affects of climate change on the Indian Monsoon. Datasets were located using NOAA and PANGEA. By collecting core samples of these microfossils, and comparing their d18O and Mg/Ca values, trends related to the Indian Monsoon’s temperature and variability were revealed.

- I chose this project because of its focus on the environment, and its potential to help us better understand the drastic changes to our environment. Given that the Indian Monsoon is responsible for 70% of rainfall in India, understanding trends of this global phenomenon will better prepare humanity for the future. 

- It was determined that reconstructions of Indian monsoon variability developed from Bay of Bengal sediments coherently record monsoon intensification from the past ice age to present, in response to global warming and reduced planetary ice-volume. The largest variance amongst records occurred during the Holocene which we currently exist in.

- This project is important because as the world is continually plagued by floods, droughts, and other natural disasters, it is undeniably important that humanity is able to understand how the world will react to increased heating. Notably, a comparison between micro fossil cores has never been done before and could open avenues for increased understanding of global trends.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Good job!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting