SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
2nd Place Grand Award

4-CH003
The Orbeez-Igloo-Stupa Inator (T.O.I.S.-in8r) - A Frost Protection & Hydration System for Plants With a Little Help From Grey Water
Chemical Sciences

Insee Ekstrom
Grade:
4

Teacher:
Nancy Bonsall

Tucson has limited water supplies, especially in the summer.  Winter can also be very cold for plants.  TOIS-inator is a system designed to help protect roots during the winter and provides water in the summer.  TOIS-inator was born based on the ideas of the Ice Stupa and an Igloo to help save water while protecting plants from frost. As the ice melts, it becomes water for the plants during warm weather.  Orbeez and my shower water are secret ingredients (shhh!)
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Well orchestrated, and shows passion! So glad you got to try it with SNOW too!
You did a great job working so hard on the different components of your inator. Keep up the good work and hope you will make another inator next year!
You did a great job working so hard on the different components of your inator.  it is
Great idea for a project to solve the water shortage in Tucson! Plus, I was drawn in by
the Doofenshmirtz picture. I love Phineas and Ferb! Yes, science and engineering can be hard, but you are well on your way to becoming a good scientist.
I love you built an inator for good!  I appreciate you took the time to test out each component of your system (and had fun along the way).  Mark Rober & Doofenschmirtz would be proud!
I love you built an inator for good! I appreciate you took the time to test out each component of your system (and had fun along the way). Mark Rober & Doofenschmirtz would be proud!
This is really great!  Do you think that Orbeez help to clean up dirty water?  What do you think they do

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting