SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award

HS-PS006
Defying Gravity: The Role of Nitric Oxide in Mediating Gravitropism in Natural and Synthetic Auxin
Plant Science

Ana Navarro
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Alfred Santos

Does nitric oxide influence the growth of Phaseolus vulgaris primary root? Is there a significant interaction between auxin and nitric oxide on mediating gravitropism? This research investigated the interaction between nitric oxide and two different auxins in mediating gravitropism. In this research, Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) of a 98+% purity was used as natural auxin, 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) of 98+% purity as synthetic auxin and Nitric oxide Synthase Inhibitor (NOSI) in the form of curcumin was used as Nitric oxide inhibitor. This experiment included four experimental treatments and a control group, each consisting of five Phaseolus vulgaris. Treated and control groups were planted and positioned horizontally against the direction of gravity. Based on the gathered and interpreted results, it was found out that Nitric oxide did not have significant influence on gravitropism and primary root growth in natural auxin as supported by the F value of 1.90 for angle of bending and F value of 0.75 for root length with F crit is equal to 3.89. On the other hand, Nitric oxide exhibited significant effect on the gravitropism and primary root growth of synthetic auxin of 1-napthaleneacetic acid. This is supported by the F value of 19.56 for angle of bending and F value of 4.07 for primary root growth (F crit= 3.89). Lastly, it was found out that there is no significant difference between the plants that received IAA and  NAA when combined with NOSI as far as gravitropism is concerned.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments


Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting