SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

6-HW023
Which Surface Contains the Most Bacteria?
Health and Wellness

Kynzee Parra Calvet
Grade:
6

Teacher:
MariAnn Slater

What is your project about?
In this experiment I am trying to find out which surface contains the most bacteria, a car door handle, the bottom of my shoe, or the gas pump handle.There have similar experiments conducting the topic of collecting bacteria. Like this one experiment it was about the 5 second rule. They were testing how much bacteria is on the object after 5 seconds. I am testing which surface contains the most bacteria and those surfaces are a shoe, a gas station pump, and a car door handle. This experiment is similar to mine because we are collecting the bacteria on the surfaces/objects.Here are two facts about bacteria. Is bacteria dangerous? Most bacteria are not  dangerous but some are and that bacteria can make us feel sick. What Is bacteria? Bacteria are tiny little organisms that live everywhere like in our air or the ground and all throughout nature . If you would like to see bacteria you would need to use a microscope and the reason why you need a microscope is because bacteria is so small but, I hope you enjoyed those facts about bacteria.Here is where i got my data.
https://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/science-projects?s=5%20second%20rule
https://www.ducksters.com/science/bacteria.ph
2.) Why did you choose this project?
I chose this project because I wanted to see how much bacteria builds up on these surfaces and also because of the pandemic we are in right now.
3.) What were your results/ overall conclusion?
My results were expected because my hypothesis was my shoe and the shoes had the most bacteria and I was thinking it was the shoe because we step on a lot of different surfaces that contain nasty baterias.
4.) Why is your project important?
My project is important because with everything going on I want to remind people to be more sanitary and when they walk in with their shoes on in their house they should probably take them off because there is a lot of bacteria on their shoes.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments


Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting