SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award

7-HW007
How Gross is Gross?
Health and Wellness

Riley Schleicher
Grade:
7

Teacher:
Alexandria Vaughn

ALL samples were cultured in an isolated laboratory, student researcher evaluated photos.

What is your project about?
This project is about why everyone needs to take washing their mask, based on the CDC guidelines,  seriously.  Most people, I have observed,  touch their mask and then touch something else, spreading bacteria everywhere without even knowing it.  This project proves just how much bacteria grows, not just on the inside of everyone's masks, but the outside.    


Why did you choose this project? 
 I chose this project because everywhere I go I have observed so many people touching and adjusting their mask and then not washing their hands.  So I was curious as to what we were transferring to the outside of our mask compared to the inside bacteria the CDC has determined would grow.  


What was your result/overall conclusion?
The mask grew the most bacteria and mold, filling up the majority of the petri dish. The underwear came in second and the sock was third.   Basically after two days it would have been safier and more sanitary to wear my underwear or sock on my face than the same mask.  

Why is your project important?
My project is important because it applies to the entire public since we are all mandated to wear a mask everywhere.   People don't think about the outside of their mask and end up transferring more bacteria than they realize.  They only  think the inside of their mask is the most bacteria filled but really it can grow anywhere.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

This is an excellent and timely experiment! Great job!
I loved your conclusion and that you were willing to publish information about underwear bacteria growth :)  Great application for the community and the world.
I really like that you recorded the amount of growth as well as appearances of the plates!
Wow, great job!  This is some good science!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting