SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

3-PM006
The Power of Solar!
Physics, Astronomy, and Mathematics

Levi Siemens
Grade:
3

Teacher:
Mrs. Campbell

I explored the powerful affects that Solar Power, a clean and renewable energy, can have. I did this my making two pizza box solar ovens and demonstrating that with basic materials, I could harness enough solar power to cook a s’more.I tested one solar oven with aluminum foil that attracted heat and sun against another pizza solar oven not designed with aluminum foil. During the experiment I also gathered temperature data with a cooking thermometer, showing the aluminum foil solar equipped oven generated a temperature of 140 degrees! I explored the positives of solar power and how it is a clean and renewable energy source vs. other not clean and not renewable power sources. I chose this project because I love the outdoors and nature. I care about helping to make our planet heathy by making smart and environmentally friendly choices. I wanted to show that solar power is an accessible and effective energy source that we could all use, instead of other not environmentally safe power and energy sources. My conclusion or result was that solar power was effective. My solar oven was effective in cooking a s’more. I demonstrated that solar power is accessible by easily making a solar oven out of every day supplies and resources and without harming the environment. My project is important to help demonstrate the positive and big impact that clean and renewable energy, like solar power, can have on our every day lives and at the same time keep our planet healthy!
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Way to Go Project #37! You definately showed the sun's heat source with the selection of acceptable materials to proved your hypothesis. Perhaps you can repeat your study in boiling water! Good work!
I really enjoyed reading your project. Great job!
Solar Power is important! Great Job defining what is essentially is! Great work!
It was clear this topic was important to you and you put a lot of work into your project. Great job! Incredible design and details.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting