SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award, NASA Earth System Science Award, TEP Award of Excellence

6-PM011
X-Rays vs. Altitude: Which Exposes You to More Radiation - a Trip to the Mountains or a Trip to the Dentist?
Physics, Astronomy, and Mathematics

Samuel Rohrbach
Grade:
6

Teacher:
Amanda Rohrbach

1. My project is investigating and measuring how much radiation you are exposed to at the dentist versus spending time at high elevations (such as a weekend trip to the mountains).
2. I am very interested in physics, especially the physics of ionizing radiation and radioactive decay! I also have noticed that public knowledge about radiation is full of misinformation and fear, and I want to help people understand radiation so they can be informed about it and know how to keep themselves safe, and what they don't need to be worried about. 
3. I got permission from a dentist to place the Geiger counters in front of their X-ray machine to see how much radiation is received with dental X-rays.  I used Geiger counters to measure the background radiation at my house in Tucson and near the top of Mt. Lemmon at Loma Linda picnic area. I then compared all the data to see which one exposed you to a greater overall radiation exposure, and found that the trip to the mountains exposed you to far more counts according to the Geiger counter! The amount of radiation you are actually exposed to at the dentist is far less than the increase in background radiation that you are exposed to when you spend time at higher elevations due to more background radiation from space making it through the thinner atmosphere.
4. My project can help with public health and safety, and public education, and inspire people to learn more about "scary" science topics like radiation.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments


Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting