SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-MI005
Efficacies of Antimicrobial Agents on Microorganisms of Device Surfaces
Microbiology

Natalie Son
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Tara Archuleta

It may be challenging for the common person to decide among the unlimited products available, as the factors of price points, efficacy, practicality and the potential of home-made solutions overpower one another. In order to avoid the difficulty in finding an effective product to incorporate within a sanitation protocol, a wide spectrum of potential disinfectants was selected, as consumers may either utilize the products tested or near substitutes that may more greatly satisfy affordability. After eleven disinfectants were chosen and four trials were performed within a constant environment, Image J surface area results concluded that the ASSISLOVI UV-C wand had the greatest efficacy and that increasing concentrations of isopropanol in home-made wipe solutions had a direct relationship to efficacy. The combination of results gathered from this experiment will hopefully motivate people to choose more effective disinfectants, begin to engage in disinfecting habits, and have greater awareness of the microbes present on devices we constantly use, as this data collection was a mere glimpse of the hubs of bacteria within public environments.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Nice project! Loved the pictures on the 5th and 6th slides
Very Biological terms you used! Very excellent job! I love the choices you used to represent here!
Congratulations on exhibiting your project in the virtual SARSEF event!This is a very interesting topic, well planned experimental process and interesting analysis.Good luck with future research!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting