SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
2nd Place Grand Award, AFSP Inspired Young Researcher

5-HW014
The Calmer
Health and Wellness

Torrence Salyer
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Elisabeth Gingrich

My health and wellness project is called the Calmer. It helps with anxiety.I had this idea because I thought about my anxiety and how I could help fix it. This idea inspired me because a lot of people have anxiety and can't help it, so I would design something to help. My prediction was that by using my invention it will help reduce stress and anxiety. I did some research, and it seems that inhaling lemongrass is very good for you and that it's proven to help calm you down which can be shown by reduced heart rate.  I tested one subject. I tested my mom after she works out on her bike for 30 mins by noting her heart rate right when she gets off. She then used the Calmer for 3 mins while sitting down. After those 3 mins, I took her heart rate again. I will see how much it has decreased. Each time she uses the Calmer, there will be a lemongrass essential oil saturated cotton ball. I  also tested her with the Calmer for 3 mins without her exercising before in order to see what the heart rate difference is. Lastly, I tested her without doing a workout and without the Calmer. I tested all three for 3 days each. The building and testing went well because I did a lot of research and tried to plan it all out according to that. I had to improve my procedures along the way to find results in order to compare and contrast. So in conclusion I learned that my Calmer works and helps calm you down.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

I liked your project and your conclusion.  I liked that you tweaked your procedure along the way to find results in order to compare and contrast.  That means you are flexible.  Good job!
In a time when stress and anxiety affect many, this is a great project! Well done!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting