SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award

8-CH005
Freezing Batteries
Chemical Science

Brendan Ritchey
Grade:
8

Teacher:
Mrs. Ochoa

My project is to find out what type of AA batteries (NiMH, lithium, and alkaline) perform best when it is below freezing. I chose this project after my dad told me about a time he was in Germany and his camera stopped working. He suspected that this was because of the cold temperatures surrounding him. Because of this, I wanted to figure out what battery would've been best for his camera. My experiment measured both the battery's overall voltage output and the time each of the batteries lasted in temperatures below freezing. I found with all the variables eliminated the alkaline batteries performed the worst, lasting about 7 hours and 17 minutes, followed NiMH batteries lasting about 8 hours and 51 minutes. Lithium batteries lasted the best at a rounded 9 hours and 18 minutes. For voltage output, lithium batteries once again performed best. This was followed by NiMH batteries, with alkaline once again performing the worst of the 3 batteries tested. It is important to note that in the results for the voltages, no variables were eliminated as there was no logical way to remove all of the different voltages and different capacities of the batteries. I conclude that lithium batteries performed best in both voltage output and time lasted, followed by NiMh batteries in both voltage output and time lasted, with alkaline batteries being the worst of the 3 batteries in voltage output and time lasted. This project is important as it helps myself and others know what type of battery should be used when the temperature is cold.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments


Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting