SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-BE012
Music on the Brain
Behavioral and Social Science

Zeenya Ramirez
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Jason Flora

1. What is your project about?
My project figures out if music can help a person concentrate better. There are five main genres of music being tested. The genres are Country, Pop, Classical, Hip-hop/ R&B, and Rock and Alternative. Each participant takes a memory test while listening to each type of music and their results are recorded and then analyzed. 

2. Why did you choose this project?
I was inspired by a scientist named Tram Nguyen. He did a similar experiment by using negative and positive music. I took a different approach by using different genres of music instead. Plus music has always been a part of my life and I was interested to find out if it can actually be used other than dancing and singing. 

3. What was your result/ overall conclusion?
After conducting my research I came to a similar conclusion with Tram Nguyen. Which is that music can be effective for most but not all. In my overall results, two out of three participants had the most positive results. So my question was answered that music can be used other than for dancing and singing.  

4. Why is your project important?
My project is important because it reinforces the theory that music can help a person concentrate. It might not help all but it does help some. It also provides a difference because of the different genres of music used, unlike it being positive or negative music. This data allows for people to claim that music does help them and it is not just a reason to listen to music while they work. Music is beneficial for many people.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Music does effect us, so perhaps we should be judicious in the music we expose ourselves to.  Fascinating topic!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting