SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

5-AP017
How Water Types Affect Seed Growth
Animal and Plant Sciences

Timothy Jones II
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Jenny Haselhorst

I think the more expensive brand of water will have a better effect on the seed because I believe the different minerals in the water will enhance the growth of the seed. In conclusion Fiji #1 was the tallest measuring 34 centimeters. However, Sam’s Choice #1 and #2 were almost the same height. Sam’s Choice #1 measured 27.5 cm and Sam’s Choice #2 measured 29.5 cm. Sam’s Choice had both plants the closest in height. Every other water source had one plant that was much taller than the 2nd which is surprising. Evian #2 was only 24 cm compared to #1 at 34 cm. Arrowhead #1 was much shorter at 17.5 cm compared to #2 at 26.5 cm.  Tap Water #1 was 28 cm, which is much taller than #2 at 18 cm. The data supported my hypothesis, because the most expensive water (Fiji) had the tallest seed growth. Next time, I would try to place the plants outside to see if direct sunlight would make a significant change in seed growth. After seeing the amount of root growth, I would use larger jars/pots to allow the roots to spread out more.  I would try the experiment during the different seasons of the year because the sun is out for longer hours during the summer months versus the winter months.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Your journal notes are very thorough. I am happy that you are already thinking of additional experiments and how to improve.
Excellent photo documentation. The photos make your data come to life. Also a good way to "freeze" time so you can look back when working with your data, verifying your data points if needed.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting