SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
SARSEF Board of Directors Award

HS-EA014
Biocontrol for Toxic Algae
Earth and Environmental Science

Josselyn Hernandez, Jimena Uribe
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Alfred Santos

This project is about the eradication of algae, for the sole purpose of benefiting the ecosystem. Doing this project was executed to grasp information on the environment's condition and to find a solution on an existing difficulty. It has been proven that algae intoxicate the waters, harming sea animals. Throughout this investigation, we followed a sequence of steps: creating algae inside plastic water bottles, checking the number of algae in each water bottle, pouring macro-zyme inside each bottle, recording the time of each eradication, and repeat each step for 10 times. The results of this experiment, were identified by the recordings of time. On week #1, it approximately took twice the time on the time of week #2. Because week #1 had a larger number of algae, on the second week, it was easier to cleanse the intoxicated water. During week #2, the process of cleaning facilitated, due to the reduction of algae. At the end of our investigation, we came to the conclusion of proving that algae can be eliminated with the correct observations and calculations. At the average of every three hours, the contaminated water began to cleanse with the assistance of "Algaefix." Based on our records, it is shown the amount of time it took to eradicate the algae as much as possible. On the trials we poured 100 ML on 5 water bottles each, to cleanse themselves for 1 week and other 5 water bottles for a 2-week cleaning process. All this led to confirm our hypothesis, because the eradication of algae is possible to do so with the correct timing.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Congratulations on all your hard work.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting