SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award

5-HW101-C
Temperature Tantrum
Health and Wellness

Lindsay Wong Class
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Lindsay Wong

This project's idea came about from kids' curiosity on the playground. Students returned to school in the midst of the Coronavirus pandemic and learned to wait in line to have their forehead temperatures checked for safety and health. The kids' thought it was possible that the infrared forehead thermometers being used were sensing the cooler morning air around them and possibly not reading their own body temperatures accurately. Were they right? Only the scientific method could tell them.  We tested several infrared forehead thermometers, using oral thermometers as our (comparative) control method and determined whether or not the fluctuations in readings were consistent in three different kinds of ambient conditions. Our results indicate that the fluctuations in infrared forehead temperature readings were extreme and not consistent. This is SO important to our understanding of the limitations of infrared thermometers and the need to use them in an indoor environment when screening body temperatures. With schools using them as a health and safety screening, this information can make a huge difference in accuracy. Covid-19 screening awareness!

thermometers, temperature, hot, cold, weather, health, safety, Covid-19, Covid, Coronavirus, first responders, students, fevers
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

I liked your project.  I think the theory of real-world weather conditions has a big role to play when taking temps.  I wonder what would have changed if you sat in the car with the heater on or A/C?

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting