SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

7-AP004
Keeping Cut Flowers Fresh with Bleach
Animal and Plant Science

Julia Dinh
Grade:
7

Teacher:
Mrs. Patricia Barrett

I have come to the idea of my project, Keeping Cut Flowers Fresh with Bleach because I have a few flowers in my house. It has been quite a hassle keeping my flowers fresh, so I wanted to carry out this experiment to see if the bleach method works. In my gathered research, I found out about transpiration pull which is the process of water evaporating from the leaves of plants, including the attraction between water molecules. This piece of info was the base for my project. It led me to thinking that a plant dies possibly because the water is unhygenic. This is where the bleach comes in. I collected some materials and put together my experiment by thoroughly cleaning the picked flowers and cups, adding water to the cups, adding bleach to the water, and finally putting in the flowers. I had waited 7 days and recorded the changes/progress for each group, powder & liquid bleach. There was a contrast in the results between the two groups. Overall, the powdered bleach had the best outcome because it would’ve lasted longer if the stem weren’t to break. I made this inference because the flowers looked just as fresh throughout the week but the liquid bleach didn’t keep the flowers fresh and they wilted. In my research, I found out that by adding ¼ of a teaspoon would work the best according to most florist recipes. In my project the two cups that had ¼ tp of bleach had remained alive throughout the 7 days. If I were to choose between the powdered bleach and the liquid bleach, I would recommend the powdered bleach, specifically Comet bleach.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

You have asked a good question and done nice work.
Good work on this experiment that may help us all to keep our cut flowers looking fresh.  I hope you have the opportunity to participate in next years SARSEF.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting