SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

5-AP023
The Dog Umbrella
Animal and Plant Sciences

Bennett LaPrise
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Colin Cordell

I came up with a dog umbrella because, when it's raining outside my dog's can't go to the bathroom, then they end up peeing or pooping inside and no one wants to clean it up, it leaves a stain on the carpet and a smell in the room.  The inspiration for the dog umbrella started with my dog Mocha not going to the bathroom when it was raining, she would refuse to go outside. she just hates the water and I think that could be a problem for other dogs too. The main question I asked was how am I going to build it,  I knew I could try but how could I make it to where it would actually be stable enough to stay on my dog. My project is important because dogs around the world may not want to go to the bathroom in the pouring rain. My project could help dogs go outside and maybe not even go the bathroom maybe just to go on a walk. I researched the dog umbrella and it did come up with a very similar product to what my idea was but It didn't stop me. I decided that I'm going to stick with my idea because i think this is a great idea! I think I can improve on the umbrella stand. The umbrella i saw on amazon looked very heavy on the dogs back. The dog in the photo was pretty big. My dog (mocha) is very little and i am not sure she could hold that on her back. I am going to try my best to improve on that.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Clever idea and good job.  My dog hates rain too because he doesn't like his feet wet.  Congratulations on a nice project.
Great job working on a real problem that is personal to you and that the results would be useful to you.
Good job going through a process to identify the factors in the problem, then sorting through those factors to come up with practical solutions.
You are thoughtful and are compassionate. Mocha loves that you are concerned about her wellness. Your Mom likes less messes to cleanup too. I like all the questions you thought of.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting