SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
The Ruby Memorial Award

HS-AS015
The Effect of Changing Temperatures on Hummingbird Populations
Animal Science

Keila Raquel Villalba
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Elyse Wexler

My project is about the changing temperatures on hummingbird populations. I chose this project because I love seeing hummingbirds outside my window every day and that made me think about how global warming has been harmful to many animals and I wanted to know if it was affecting one of my favorites. The results of my experiment showed that hummingbirds were not negatively affected by changing temperatures, meaning they are safe and in no immediate danger. This project is important because hummingbirds are essential in many environments and if they were found to be negatively affected, then they would need to be observed and protected.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

I love hummingbirds too, so thank you for doing this research. It will be important as climate change continues.
Great work on an important topic!  Keep up the good work!  Mrs. Wexler
This is super interesting! I also love hummingbirds and it was cool to learn more about them.
I love your research! I also like hummingbirds as well!
Nice project! The slide deck created a very easy project to read and understand.
Your presentation was very interesting and easy to follow. You had some very detailed graphs that represent your data well
Very good work and display.  Next time you could focus on a smaller area where the average temperature for that area would be a better predictor.  Tucson, for example, is  different from Flagstaff.
Your graphs are very helpful because they present your findings in different ways, which makes the results easier to understand.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting