SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award

5-HW015
The Cost of Blue Light Reduction
Health and Wellness

Josh Moss
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Sabina Vaswani

My project is about how you can make less expensive ways of protecting your eyes from blue light. My experiment is me shining a blue light flashlight through different materials on a paper. Then, the blue light intensity will be measured by an iPhone app.  You will find that my hypothesis, which is that yellow cellophane would be the best at reducing blue light intensity, was correct.  Yellow cellophane is a less expensive way to reduce blue light than blue light glasses or a blue light screen protector.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

This is a great project!  Especially for a student of this age and when so many students are having to work remotely and are being subjected to so much screen time.  A cost effective alternative great
I liked your project.  Your conclusion was great because you are already thinking about how you can improve your testing the next time!  Great job!
Congratulations on your school project - nice idea on researching this topic - eye fatigue definitely occurs.  Way to go Joshua😎
This is great, very impressive and detailed work at such a young age!! I can tell you are going to do great things, and this project is just the beginning! Well done!!  -Megan Parsons
What a great project and very needed during a pandemic where everyone is on their computers for hours at a time. Great job!!!
Due to Covid and on-line learning this project is timely and relevant. Great job. In high school, I would like you to expand on this research due to the blinding effect of blue lights on vehicles.
Well done!  This is a timely topic because our use of electronic devices will continue to increase, even for young children.  Our eyes are very important, and it is critical to protect them.
I think this was super creative and a great idea!!
Timely project and the results indicate the benefits of screen protection.
Excellent work! The project is very thorough as well as timely. The study & understanding of light & color affect us in so many ways. Well done.
Really like the way the student went about creating a hypothesis - sort of 'if A is the problem, then the opposite of A must be the solution.' Simple straight forward thinking that many often miss.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting