SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-AS004
Sugar Rush! Observing the Effects of Fruits and Vegetables Diet on the Glucose Level of Guinea Pigs
Animal Science

Julianna Serna-Ortiz
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Alfred Santos

It is a widely held belief that just by eating fruits and vegetables, you can live a long and healthful life. It is true that fruits and vegetables are an excellent diet but what most people aren’t aware of is that fruits contain lots of sugar, which can be risky for people with high glucose problems, if eaten in large portions. This project compares the effects of fruits and vegetables diet on the glucose level of a guinea pig. 
This experiment was conducted using the following procedures: 
       Before starting the experiment, gather all the materials. Make sure the guinea pig is fasting, in order to be accurate. First, cut a fruit into a small piece and feed it to the guinea pig. Wait 1 hour, then, put on the latex gloves and prepare the needle. Grab the guinea pig and disinfect one ear using the cotton. Slightly puncture the ear and press, until blood comes out. Immediately, analyze the blood with the glucose meter. Compare to the standard level. Later, Repeat the steps using a vegetable and compare the results.
       The results showed that fruits have a larger amount of sugar than vegetables. The fruit with the highest sugar level was the pineapple, which aumented the guinea pig’s glucose up to 132 mg/dl. The banana’s results were also high (129 mg/dl). The grape’s results were 111 mg/dl, which are also very high. Berries (103 mg/dl) and the avocado (96mg/dl). As shown in the graph, the bars in the fruits category are very high compared to the vegetables bars. The highest level a vegetable could reach was to 97 mg/dl which were the results of the spinach and the cucumber. Broccoli and celery got the same results, as well (96 mg/dl). Finally, the vegetable that showed the least amount of sugar was the lettuce, that only increased 1mg/dl (the standard glucose level was 90mg/dl and its results were 91 mg/dl.

        In conclusion, fruits have a major effect on the blood’s glucose because of their sugar levels. On the other hand, vegetables have very low sugar levels. This proves that vegetables are, in fact healthier than fruits, because having an excess of sugar in our blood can cause many diseases.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Nice job describing the facts about Glucose, you are a really good biology student - Venkata Manikonda
I never knew guinea pigs would react like humans. This is great information for me to keep in mind when snacking. The fruits were so different &funny the veggies were almost the same. Well done! 🤩

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting