SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
3rd Place Grand Award, Mattie JT Stepanek Promising Scientist Award

5-HW003
So Long, Coronavirus! You Won’t Be ‘Mist’! - Designing and Building an Economical Ventilation System to Reduce the Transmission of Airborne Pathogens Like COVID Aerosols in Indoor Classrooms
Health and Wellness

Noah McGill
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Nancy Steinke

1. The purpose of my project is to design a simple and low-cost ventilation system for my classroom and to measure whether it reduces potentially harmful coronavirus aerosols. My goal is to build the prototype with a design that can be reproduced easily and cost effectively in other schools and businesses. My project is based on the fact that warm air rises (convection) and that suction can redirect it (Bernoulli's Principle).

2. With a slow and complicated COVID vaccine rollout, reducing the spread of the novel coronavirus, especially in classrooms, could still be as important as treating it. With a low-cost ventilation system, students could safely return to on-campus learning at my school in Tucson, Southern Arizona.

3. I was able to build a ventilation system for my classroom that was proven to reduce (COVID) aerosols by up to 95%. My ventilation system is cost-effective and can be easily reproduced using my construction plan to benefit other schools and businesses. 

4. Both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) say that poor ventilation increases the risk of transmitting the coronavirus. My project gives schools the opportunity to build an economic, efficient, measurably successful ventilation system to keep their students safer from infectious COVID-19 aerosols in classrooms.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Nice project!  Very detailed !!  Good job!
This is an amazing project!!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting