SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
Student Award for Geoscience Excellence

7-EA015
Rock Luster
Earth and Environmental Science

Michelle Melendrez, Ximena Ojeda
Grade:
7

Teacher:
Sean Mendoza

Our project is about finding if a rock is either smaller or larger and usually tends to have a greater amount of luster. So we can test this to decide to find the volume of a rock to know which of the rocks were considered small and which of the rocks would be considered large according to their amount of volume. We ended up doing this by taking a measuring cup and by recording them in millimeters where the water was original. Then we placed the rock, we had to see how much of the water rose up from its original starting location. Then all we did was the math to find the volume. Once we recorded each of the rock volumes we categorized them into smaller and larger rock piles. Any rocks which have a volume of 15 or even higher were considered large rocks and rocks with a volume lower than 15 were considered small rocks. Once we had them all sorted out we had to identify which rocks had a shinier luster and which rocks had a dull luster. We figured this out by taking the rocks out into the sun from the shadows and seeing how the light reflected on and off the rocks. Once we had all of the information we were able to determine and find out which rock was shinier and which rock looked dull and was the opposite. We had categorized the shiny and ugly dull rocks then we counted how many rocks had shinier luster than the small ones and the other ones were big. We found out most of the small rocks had a shiny or luster compared to the example of two bigger rocks.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Interesting project.  I wondered how you picked up a random sample of rocks.  I am always drawn to the ones with the most lustre.
This took a lot of work. But I looked for your definition of luster. Good that you mentioned different types as the results are different. How does hardness and weight factor in?

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting