SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-BE011
Music Preference and Its Effect on Personality
Behavioral and Social Science

Vonna Lin
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Elyse Wexler

This SARSEF project was conducted on the correlation of music and personality. Or more specifically, is there a correlation between music preference and personality traits. Although there is some research done on some topics, there is not an in depth explanation on the correlation. There are a few vague ideas on different traits and how they may act based on their music genre preference. The steps taken for this experiment were first the consent forms the survey on Microsoft Forms was created. Then they were distributed to the participants via social media. The data would then be collected and analyzed. They were placed into data charts and tallied, then graphed to help better digest the marks. This research is important because sometimes music can interpret a significant amount about a person. Music can affect your mental health, how you perceive things etc. Therefore you can maybe even try to alter your music taste to possibly incorporate positive qualities, or figure out where your negative qualities come from. Listening to certain types of music can affect how you perceive the world, as well as how you behave and certain negative thoughts or activities. Music preference can also affect mental health as well as decision making. Looking at these aspects may be vital to one's mental health and wellbeing as well. You can also further your knowledge on how people behave. This can also allow for a bigger understanding of each other as music reflects certain actions and behaviors in a person.
View Project Video
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Wow!!
Love your research topic!
Nice project! Interesting topic with a fun project design.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting