SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

6-EA012
For the Love of Chickens
Earth and Environmental Science

Noah Bunch, Simran Shroff
Grade:
6

Teacher:
Kelly Smith

Our school's farmyard is a beloved place within a surrounding community, as are the precious animals who live there. Over the last year, 2020 to current, we’ve encountered a problem. Nocturnal predators native to Arizona have broken into our farmyard and stolen some of the chickens and ducks for their meals. We set up a trail camera and captured pictures of multiple coyote and bobcat visits throughout the fall and winter months. If left unaddressed, more and more predators may find the Farmyard to be a good source of food too. This increases the risk of losing more of our sweet farm animals. Conditioned behavior by native desert predators has become more frequent. They continue to visit and try multiple ways to open the protective shelter in an attempt to find food. This issue is not unique to our school. After researching, we're learning that there has been an increase in Arizona wildlife within the Metro Tucson city. This can cause problems for both wildlife and people near them. 
The loss of animals- especially during COVID, has greatly affected the hearts of students, teachers, staff, and even the neighbors within the surrounding community. We are determined to solve this problem! What is a safe and effective way to scare off Arizona predators? We think we have a start to a potential solution.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

How great that you could do a science project to try to save the lives of your beloved farm animals at school! I hope you keep testing/iterating on your prototype. Many Tucsonans need this product!
Keep letting your passion guide your thinking and search for viable solutions.
Well thought out problem. I wonder if you keep iterating through the process if you will finally find a solution! I hope the chicken coop stays safe while you are all remote!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting