SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
Most Outstanding Exhibit in Materials Science

6-EA006
What Soundproof Material Works Best?
Earth and Environmental Science

Mateo Hearn
Grade:
6

Teacher:
Joe Beard

I choose this project because I play video games in my bedroom a lot and I sometimes tend to get loud while playing. I figured if I could find materials in my house that I could use to soundproof my bedroom, then I would not disturb anyone while I play my video games.  

My overall results while conducting my experiment was that I observed the cotton balls were the most soundproof.  I had the sound at 1800 Hz and they measured at 35.6 dB average. 

The Styrofoam peanuts were the loudest. The Styrofoam peanuts measured at 51.1 dB average. The higher the number the louder it was, which means the Styrofoam peanuts were the least soundproof, probably because they had little holes in them and were pretty light in weight. 

The newspaper measured at 38.5 dB average. The newspaper was in the middle probably because it was crumpled up and has cracks in the newspaper causing the sound to get out a little bit.

I was correct about my hypothesis of the cotton balls being the most soundproof material.

This project was important because I think it would be pretty cool to be able to soundproof your room while playing video games so you’re not interrupting anybody. Since video games are extremely popular now with kids my age, I think parents would appreciate not having to hear their children yell and scream with excitement while playing video games.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Very resourceful using apps on phones to make and measure sounds! I like the creativity of that. I would love to see some charts showcasing your interesting data.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting