SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

HS-PS016
The Color of LIfe
Plant Science

chiara mery
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Elyse Wexler

Plants have always used sun as their light source, being either direct or indirect, but despite this, the light source stayed the same. That is until scientists developed artificial light for growing plants, leading to a new future in agriculture. Now, with more possibilities, it begs the question, what color light is best? Previously, there have been similar studies executed by other researchers, but their results contradict one another. I tested exclusively LED lights as they emit wavelengths similar to that of the sun, making them more efficient than fluorescents. In my project, I propagated 10 chlorophytum comosum plants, 5 under red and blue LED lights and 5 under white LED light. Every week I measured each plant's height and root length.Chlorophytum comosum plants grown under white light exhibited more root length growth than those grown under blue and red LED light. The average root length growth for plants grown under red and Blue LED lights was 1.43cm while the average root length growth for plants grown under white LED lights was 2.3cm. Chlorophytum comosum plants grown under white light exhibited more height growth than those grown under blue and red LED light. The average height growth for plants grown under red and Blue LED lights was 0.25cm while the average height growth for plants grown under white LED lights was 0.4cm. The results from this project could help future projects relating to growing plants without sunlight, such as in warehouses or in outer space.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

Really interesting research topic! This is amazing!
Nice project! Loved the picture of the physical experiment.

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting