SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
2nd Place Grand Award, Sky Island Naturalist

HS-AS003
How Scent Bias Affects Wildlife Camera Data
Animal Science

madison brichard
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Elyse Wexler

This project looks into how scent on wildlife cameras can cause bias in the data captured. I work closely with the wildlife protocol used in the National Park Service, this protocol uses these cameras to gather data about population density. The cleaning and maintenance of these cameras has never been clear and led me to be curious about scent affecting photo numbers. Using 4 treatments of smell to test this I discovered that food scents significantly impact photo numbers. This will change how and where cameras are stored. This project altered how bio technicians interact with cameras in the wildlife protocol. Cameras can be cleaned using rubbing alcohol because that treatment had no affect and cameras will be stored away from food.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

What a fantastic project! If you are still checking your cameras, consider submitting your them to Sky Island FotoFauna! You can learn more about FotoFauna here: https://bit.ly/2PwvNw9
Great idea! I had not thought about the effect of odors on attracting wildlife to cameras. How long do you think an odor (molecules) would stay on the camera. Did you notice a difference over time?
Amazing!  I love the photos of the animals.  You did an excellent job!  Mrs. Wexler
Nice project! A cool idea to challenge the status of an existing experiment and findings.
This is great! I love how informational your slides were and all the visuals and images you provided makes your project very interesting.
Such an interesting topic! I also love you slide deck design and your graphs!
Great job! I really like the graphics you chose and the pictures are awesome!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting