SARSEF Virtual Fair: Home






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by




Welcome to the virtual 2021 SARSEF Science and Engineering Fair
Over 50,800 K-12 students in Southern Arizona currently participate in SARSEF, conducting research projects to be considered as a representative of their school. The top 15% of projects advance to this weeklong celebration of their achievements and further competition.
    
Each year, over $100,000 in awards, trips and scholarships are awarded, thanks to our community support. Top high school students move on to international levels of competition, where SARSEF alumni succeed at four-times the national average!
    
Welcome to the 2021 virtual Fair!
    
Enter the Exhibit Hall
Lists of Winners


Project Spotlight






7-AP001
How Can You Improve Zoanthid Growth Rate?
Grade:7



AP-Animal and Plant Science





Watch our live main stage events




Friday, March 5
Future Innovator Day



9:00a
Our Natural World



                        Life sciences presentations from Tucson Reptile Museum, The Cooper Center for Environmental Learning, and Terracon
                    


9:40a
Full STEAM Ahead!



                        Watch how science and art come together with activities from the Museum of Kinetic Art and Dorsey Kaufmann's graduate research
                    


10:00a
Aurora's World of Physics



                        Peek inside ON Semiconductor, then dive into physics and astronomy with UArizona's College of Optics and the Fred Whipple Observatory
                    


11:00a
Can You Hack It?



                        Come join PCC's IT Center for Excellence for the basics behind hacking. This is a live hacking event where YOU get to participate!
                    


12:00p
Health and Biomedicine



                        Hear from PCC nursing students and learn firsthand about the teamwork needed to implement widespread testing of the COVID-19 virus at Sonora Quest Laboratories
                    


1:00p
Racing the Sun Career Day



                        Learn about this unique program for high schoolers and join employees from Amazon and the UArizona Tech Park in an interactive Q&A session
                    



Saturday, March 6
Awards Presentations



10:00a - 11:00a
Elementary School Grand Awards Ceremony




12:00p - 2:00p
Sponsored Awards Ceremony (All Grades)




3:00p - 4:30p
Middle/High School Grand Awards Ceremony


Awards Ceremony Booklet

 
View the main stage



Join us in making students proud of their science
We are so fortunate to have generous donors who support critical thinking and problem solving in Southern Arizona.We could not do the work we do without the contributions of organizations and individuals in our community!
    
Learn more about ways to donate and what your support means for Arizona students.
    
Donate Today!
    
View all sponsors
Become a sponsor




















Family fun

A scavenger hunt with the chance to win prizes
  
A video library of fun science activities to enjoy at home
  
An opportunity to meet last year’s International Science and Engineering Fair finalists from the SARSEF Fair
  

Check out our Family Fun page for all of this and more!
  
View activities


Give the gift of time and make a difference in a day
We are always in need of volunteers to help  the programs at SARSEF. Whether judging, mentoring, or offering other volunteer support, there is a place for you! Check out our volunteer opportunities!
  
Volunteer
Judge



About SARSEF
SARSEF was formed in 1955 in an effort to increase student interest in the field of science. The mission of 
      SARSEF is to teach Arizona’s Pre-K-12 grade students critical thinking and problem-solving skills as they 
      participate in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) through inquiry-based learning and research. 
      SARSEF accomplishes this mission through a variety of programming including SARSEF Research Fair Week, 
      educational outreach programs with an emphasis on underrepresented populations in the sciences, teacher 
      professional development, ACES Camp for Middle School girls, Racing the Sun, and Arizona STEM Adventure. 
      Over 795 professionals in the community volunteer for SARSEF each year, and 145 organizations support its programs financially.
    
Visit our website
Donate today







SARSEF Science Store

Grab some SARSEF swag to celebrate the Fair in style!

Visit the SARSEF Science Store





        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting