SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
SARSEF Board of Directors Award

HS-AS012
The Effects of Microplastics in Our Environment on Sphingidae
Animal Science

Kailey Garcia, Hannah Lee
Grade:
HS

Teacher:
Patricia Garcia

We wanted to test the question of how microfiber infested water affects the development of a hornworm caterpillar´s growth to cocooning. Our hypothesis was based on soaking the food source for the caterpillars with microfiber contaminated water that would result in those caterpillars having developmental issues concerning growth due to the microfibers in the water affecting their health and immune system. In order to replicate an environment, we used Hornworm Caterpillars to create two different ecosystems; Habitat A and Habitat B. Habitat A had the group of caterpillars that would be consuming tomatoes contaminated with microfibers, while Habitat B was the control group since distilled water for the tomatoes was used. To simulate microplastic contaminated water, we washed 5 items of clothing that contained over an 80 percent composition of polyester fabric with hot water and no soap. Then, we let them soak for 24 hours to capture the release of microfibers in the water. We then used that water to soak the feed, the tomatoes, for 12 hours to replicate how humans consume plastic through food. In both Habitats, A and B, we placed four caterpillars and measured their length before consuming the tomatoes. Then, we measured the length prior to the caterpillars going to cocoon. At this point in our experiment, our results showed that the caterpillars in Habitat A showed irregular growth in which one of the smaller caterpillars died. This somewhat confirmed our hypothesis to be true, although our research has not completely met an end since the caterpillars take approximately 1 to 3 weeks to emerge from their cocoon.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

This is amazing. You described the effects of MicroPlastics really well, good job! - Venkata Manikonda
Please consider entering your project into the Stockholm Junior Water prize competition https://www.wef.org/resources/for-the-public/SJWP/

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting