SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall
1st Place Grand Award

5-EA101-C
Paving the Way to Learning! A Class Project to Build a Better Outdoor Learning Space
Earth and Environmental Sciences

Jocelyn Smerz Class
Grade:
5

Teacher:
Jocelyn Smerz

Our project goal was to make our garden a learning space that attracts teachers and students to use it for outdoor learning. How does creating an outdoor learning space in our garden solve the problem of low use among teachers and students?
We decided that we needed to create learning stations for students to come in and learn about our desert wildlife and plants. We used the blank pavers in the garden to add color and use them to create learning stations so all students can start coming in to learn in the garden space.
We broke into 5 groups of three and each group designed a paver. Each group researched desert animals and birds to list facts on the pavers.
Then we consulted with art and landscape experts about how to paint.
We chose this project because now that we need to socially distance due to Covid-19, we want to use the outdoors more often as our learning space. What can we do to make this space a place for all classes to learn from?  It is time to help make our garden space a learning space. It should be a welcoming reflection of our school.
Based on our pre and post-survey data more teachers will be using the outdoor garden with their students.
This is important because our school garden went from a place that was not used by the school to a place that teachers can hold outdoor classes and continue to make it a focal point of our school. We wanted to create a place that reflects our amazing school community and now we have a great start.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments

I like how you demonstrated the changes you made as you worked your way through the process. Congrats on your success with the teachers.
How wonderful to create a class project to help expand the interest in your school garden and increase the use of this space.  This looked like a very fun project in which to be involved.  Good work!

Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting