SARSEF Virtual Fair: View Project






















Exhibit Hall
Main Stage
Sponsors
Family Fun


Volunteer
Judge
Donate



powered by


Back to Exhibit Hall

8-EA016
Venus Fly Traps
Earth and Environmental Science

Keving "Luke" Baker, Mariafernanda Mange
Grade:
8

Teacher:
Sean Mendoza

In our project, we focused on the Venus flytrap and kept alive in a completely different environment from where they are used to. Climate change is a problem around the world right now due to these plants and animals are losing their habitat and I believe  because humans caused this we should be the ones to fix it or at least save the victims of this tragedy. This is why for our experiment we have chosen the Venus flytrap which is becoming endangered in its environment in North and South Carolina. Arizona is a very different environment so this means the Venus Fly Trap is perfect to test our experiment.  Imagine a mini biosphere to take care of plants which no longer have a natural habitat to live in.  Similar to a plant and animal sanctuary.  This time however we are only using plants but I have noticed some microspecies are appearing in the humid environment along with moss. In my experiment what I have noticed is the pH goes up with time but seems to stay in the sevens not passing to eight. My partner noticed with more sunlight the plant changes to a vibrant light green shade while my plant has not changed much in color because it does not get as much sunlight. I noticed if the bug is too big for the head and does not close right the trap will shrivel and go black. I am not sure why this happens but I am guessing it’s due to either the trap being on its last close or the trap staying open which might affect its insides. From our project, we hoped to learn how to care for plants in a whole different environment. We wanted this because as my partner Luke said earlier climate change is a huge problem and many plants and animals are losing their habitats so it’s up to us to conserve them.
This project has been cleared by SRC.


Comments


Leave a comment. Comments will not be viewable until Friday, March 5th.
200 character limit

Send




        Copyright © 2005 - 2021 by  SARSEF
 • Site by Jenson Consulting