About Gangplank - Gangplank HQ











































Skip to content



Gangplank HQ




Menu					 
Close					 


Home
FAQs
About Gangplank
3D Printing Classes
Contact
Classroom
 






About Gangplank 

Gangplank is more than coworking. We believe that the creative class should focus on collaboration over competition, and that ideas should be shared freely. Our open workspace reflects that. There are no physical or cultural barriers to sharing your ideas, your questions and your passions. We believe that small businesses, micro-businesses, and freelancers, bridged together in common cause, will be the core of this revolution.
Gangplank is about collaboration. We connect creators with each other and with the larger community. We are a community that embraces having fun at work as well as collaborating with others. We provide both a place to work and an event venue. However, it isn’t about the building. It is about the community. We provide the infrastructure and medicines. A place to connect. A place to build authentic relationships. A place to learn and a place to teach. A place to share ideas, experience, and knowledge. 
What makes Gangplank unique is that we are run off social capital. This means that every member of our community contributes to make Gangplank what it is. We do not charge a monetary fee, but rather ask that you give back through time, talent, and relationships. Gangplankers give back both by engaging the person at the desk next to them and by engaging in their city. Gangplankers give MORE than money. Gangplankers disrupt the status quo and create better communities.

Gangplank’s Manifesto
We are a group of connected individuals and small businesses creating an economy of innovation and creativity. We envision a new economic engine comprised of collaboration and community, in contrast to silos and secrecy.
We have the talent. We just need to work together. Different environments need to overlap, to connect and to interact in order to transform our culture. In order to create a sustainable community based on trust, we value:
collaboration over competitioncommunity over agendasparticipation over observationdoing over sayingfriendship over formalityboldness over assurancelearning over expertisepeople over personalities
This new economy cannot thrive without engaging the larger business, creative, entrepreneurial, governmental, and technical communities together.
We believe that innovation breeds innovation. We will transform our culture into one supportive of the entrepreneurial spirit, of risk taking, of pioneering into the unknown territories as the founders of our municipalities once did. This requires education, entrepreneurship and creative workspaces.
We are Gangplank.






Community Hours Monday-Thursday:  9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Fridays: 8:30 a.m. – 3 p.m.

Address 22240 S. Ellsworth Rd.
Queen Creek, AZ 85142

 



Gangplank QC on Facebook
Email Us







				Proudly powered by WordPress.