Welcome to the Future of Collaboration - Gangplank HQ














































Skip to content



Gangplank HQ




Menu					 
Close					 


Home
FAQs
About Gangplank
3D Printing Classes
Contact
Classroom
 








Coworking space

Gangplank offers a drop-in style coworking space for folks who work remotely. Stop by during business hours and pull up a seat. One of our community members can share the wifi password with you, and you can get working and collaborating. We have a fridge, a coffee pot, a Keurig, and mugs for beverages. We also have a microwave and a toaster oven.
We do not offer our small private rooms for daily use, but they’re available to pop in and out of for important calls –where more quiet is required.

Maker space

Our maker space houses of a lot of really talented people –and some cool tools and machinery too. 3D printing, foamsmithing, wood and metalworking, and electronics are the main focuses of our indoor and outdoor shops, but we have a lot of specialty equipment that we can also teach you about. The best way to see what we have is to come in, ask anyone for a tour of the space, and get to know the community.




Need to get in touch with us quickly? Join us on our Slack channel.




The Movement
Gangplank is a COMMUNITY. We aren’t just a free coworking and  makerspace.We are about more than shared space.We are about SHARED VISION.


The Place
We are a collaborative WORKSPACE. We have classroom and MEETING SPACE available as well as drop in workspace.


The Businesses
Gangplank is a place to DO business, LEARN from other entrepreneurs, and GROW your business.



Gangplank is a place for creators. 
When diverse backgrounds and ideas collide, those moments provide the necessary fuel to innovate. Gangplank provides the infrastructure, both physical and social, for this to happen. 



We serve as a place for people to explore their creativity, then challenge them to build their ideas into a viable startup –forging a vibrant economy in the process.






Community Hours Monday-Thursday:  9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Fridays: 8:30 a.m. – 3 p.m.

Address 22240 S. Ellsworth Rd.
Queen Creek, AZ 85142

 



Gangplank QC on Facebook
Email Us







				Proudly powered by WordPress.