FAQs - Gangplank HQ











































Skip to content



Gangplank HQ




Menu					 
Close					 


Home
FAQs
About Gangplank
3D Printing Classes
Contact
Classroom
 






FAQs 

1) Is there a fee?
Gangplank does not charge a monetary fee to work in our space. We ask that if you find the space to be meaningful, you give back in a way that is meaningful to you.
2) When is the best time to come by?
Anytime we are open is good, but every week we host Hacknight for you to work on projects and to connect with others.
3) What equipment is available in the space and what is the policy for using it?
We have a number of tools like 3d printers, CNC routers, laser engravers, soldering materials, vacuum formers, and woodworking and metal working tools. We ask that you treat the machines with care and ask/notify someone if you encounter any issues or require assistance. A great time to get started with this equipment would be our Hacknights –which happen every Thursday at 6pm– where people are around to answer any questions.
4) Do I need to register in advance to reserve a desk or make an appointment?
We do not require any form of reservation to use our drop in space. Come on in. When you get here, almost anyone in the space can give you a tour. If you have questions, just ask and as you get to know the answers, help other newbies feel welcome when they come in.
If you are looking to use one of our conference rooms, reservations are suggested to make sure you get the room you want. If it is the week that you plan to use it and during regular hours, please come by the space. If you are looking for a date further out, please email info@gangplankhq.com.
5) Do you have meeting or event space available for reservation?
We have a couple of conference style rooms available for use. To reserve a space, email info@gangplankhq.com. 
6) How can I rent/earn a desk where I can leave my things? 
The value in Gangplank is far more the relationships in our global community than a desk. We want as much of people’s presence and as little of their stuff as possible.
We don’t rent desks. We view requesting a desk as requesting to be a part of our community so it helps if you have been involved and we know you. Come in, meet people, build relationships, and contribute where you can. We often find that those who are a good fit are typically the people who are around and giving back so often that we mistake them for the crew who do have desks.
Gangplank promotes collaboration, sharing ideas, and a playful work environment. Those who are a good fit will align to our manifesto and thrive in a playful work environment that is at times noisy (we do have conference rooms for the occasional times where you need to focus a bit more). Additionally, those who are a good fit tend to want to the relationships and connections. They see the value it brings to the community and thus choose to frequently spend time out in the main space, sharing ideas, and will even move over to share a desk or offer their desk to others. Gangplankers take responsibility for the space, but are not possessive. 






Community Hours Monday-Thursday:  9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Fridays: 8:30 a.m. – 3 p.m.

Address 22240 S. Ellsworth Rd.
Queen Creek, AZ 85142

 



Gangplank QC on Facebook
Email Us







				Proudly powered by WordPress.