Highgate Senior Living Poised to Hire 80+ Workers - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


June 4, 2020 Leave a Comment Highgate Senior Living Poised to Hire 80+ Workers

As our region tentatively enters into its economic recovery, it is encouraging to know a new enterprise is coming to Flagstaff and planning to hire more than 80 workers.
Highgate Senior Living, a new assisted living facility under construction on 3.3 acres of McMillan Mesa, is starting to fill positions in advance of its grand opening next spring.
According to CEO Marjorie Todd, the positions will include leadership and management posts, “care partners” (Highgate’s term for caregivers), housekeepers, kitchen personnel, a driver, and activity professionals.
Highgate will have two living areas within the facility. The Manor will provide assisted living in its 60 suites, while The Cottage will host up to 32 residents affected by cognitive impairment from various forms of dementia, including Alzheimer’s disease.
Those interested in working for Highgate need to subscribe to two principals that Todd said separates the firm from other senior living providers. The first is a commitment to a holistic approach to health.
“A lot of our nurses are very skilled in holistic interventions,” said Todd. “What are the things they can do to help someone feel better before they ask the doctor for a pill.”
In fact, it’s one of the reasons that the 25-year-old company – which has nine other senior living facilities in the West, including one in Prescott – has its own brand of teas that help residents with digestion, immunity and sleep.
The other difference is how Highgate approaches lifestyle, particularly in the area of organized activities. There is a focus on helping residents lead purposeful lives, Todd said, that translates into numerous volunteer opportunities.
“You won’t find an ‘activities program’ here,” she said. “People don’t want to always be entertained; they want to be needed and valued and know that they are making a difference.”
We welcome Highgate Senior Living to our area and its philosophy of purposeful living for our growing senior population.
Filed Under: Uncategorized Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939