Quality of Life - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


Quality of LifeJune 1, 2021 Leave a Comment Flagstaff Art Scene Making a Comeback
After a very long pandemic year, the arts scene in Flagstaff is re-emerging, bringing music, performance and visual arts back to eager northern Arizona … [Read more...] about Flagstaff Art Scene Making a ComebackSeptember 23, 2020 Leave a Comment Q&A with Winslow City Manager John Barkley
John Barkley has been the Winslow City Manager since December 2018 and is a member of the ECoNA Board of Directors. We asked him about his background and … [Read more...] about Q&A with Winslow City Manager John BarkleyFebruary 6, 2020 Leave a Comment Flagstaff Airport Has Best Year Ever
Securing United Airlines as a second air service provider for Flagstaff has led to unprecedented growth at our regional airport, with enplanements soaring to … [Read more...] about Flagstaff Airport Has Best Year EverMay 31, 2019 Leave a Comment Harkins – A Blockbuster in Flagstaff
Warmer weather means blockbuster movies in the theaters and this year is no exception. Avengers: Endgame is closing in on $3 billion (yes, that's a "b") in … [Read more...] about Harkins – A Blockbuster in FlagstaffMarch 14, 2019 Leave a Comment Arizona Snowbowl’s Record Season
Arizona Snowbowl is breaking records faster than Bode Miller skiing downhill.

On the heels of an exceptionally busy two-week holiday season at the end of … [Read more...] about Arizona Snowbowl’s Record SeasonNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939