Tusayan Working to Fill Housing Gap - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


September 4, 2018 Leave a Comment Tusayan Working to Fill Housing Gap
The Town of Tusayan would be the perfect place to call home for those who work at the Grand Canyon National Park or the many tourism enterprises in the area.
It’s in a picturesque forested setting, located just outside the South Rim of the canyon, with excellent transportation courtesy of Highway 64. Incorporated just eight years ago, Tusayan has an energetic Town Council and staff working hard to support emergency services, the Grand Canyon Unified School District, and local businesses.
The town faces a challenge, however: there’s not much housing in Tusayan. Or much space, for that matter; Tusayan’s land area is a mere 144 acres, making it the smallest town in the state.
In July, however, the town began to alleviate its housing woes by stepping into the role of developer and breaking ground on the Ten X Ranch. The 20-acre mixed residential project is located about three miles southeast of the Grand Hotel on US Forest Road 302.
Because the property is “off-grid,” the first phase of the project is the soup-to-nuts creation of all the necessary infrastructure for the site, from electrical power (a mix of generators and solar) to water and wastewater facilities. The one thing the town will not be building from scratch are the roads, which are maintained by the US Forest Service.
Phase II will be the selection of an architect and housing designs. Town officials say the site will provide a mix to fit all budgets, including detached homes, townhouses, and “micro-homes” for singles or couples.
Prices of these properties won’t skyrocket due to second- home buyers or real estate speculators. The homes will only be available for purchase by current Tusayan residents or Tusayan-area employees with a minimum of two consecutive years of full-time employment.
As construction nears completion next year, the town’s Housing Authority will be taking applications for the properties. There will also be down payment and closing cost assistance from The Grand Canyon Housing Foundation.  
Although small, the Town of Tusayan and its leaders are pursuing a big vision of how to bring needed workforce housing to their town. You can find out more about the town at its website here.
Filed Under: Housing Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939