Living Here - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us











































 
Flagstaff, AZ
​Population: 70,000 in the city proper; 140,000 in the greater metropolitan area.

​​Four season climate, but low humidity and high elevation (7,000 ft) provide mild weather conditions throughout the year.
​Landscape dominated by San Francisco Peaks and Ponderosa Pine Forests
​Major industries in tourism, education, healthcare, government and transportation. Industrial parks in and around city.
​Active arts and cultural scene –museums, art walks, world-class symphony, community theater and music festivals.
​Pulliam Airport provides multiple flights to Phoenix each day.






























 
Winslow, AZ
Population: Population: 9,500.

Temperate arid climate
Crew change point for the BNSF Railway’s Southern

Transcom route between Los Angeles and California.
BNSF is one of the community’s major employers.


Attractions near or in Winslow include La Posada Hotel (a former Harvey House); the Standin’ on the Corner Park, inspired by the Eagles pop tune “Take it Easy;” Meteor Crater and the Painted Desert































Page, AZ
Population: Population: 7,200.

Founded as a housing community for workers on the nearby Glen Canyon Dam and their families.
Gateway to the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area and Lake Powell.
Home to the Navajo Generating Station, one of the largest electrical generation units in the western United States.
Featured in many films, from The Greatest Story Ever Told (1965) to John Carter (2012)































Williams, AZ
Population: Population: 3,000.

Historic business district features best-preserved stretch of Route 66
Home to Grand Canyon railway, offering daily trips to the Grand Canyon (approximately one hour away).










FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939