Workforce - Page 2 of 2 - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


WorkforceAugust 2, 2017 Leave a Comment Lake Powell Region: Changes & Opportunities
On behalf of Coconino County, we have had the privilege of working closely with hundreds of residents and stakeholders in the Lake Powell region for the past … [Read more...] about Lake Powell Region: Changes & OpportunitiesMay 1, 2017 Leave a Comment It Might Be More than a ‘Skills Gap’
A report from the Manufacturer's Alliance for Productivity and Innovation (MAPI) recently projected overall growth in the manufacturing sector for this year, … [Read more...] about It Might Be More than a ‘Skills Gap’February 14, 2017 Leave a Comment Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACT
Earlier this month, ECoNA was one of six recipients of the 2nd Annual Goodwill of Northern Arizona Community IMPACT Awards.

We were very proud to receive the … [Read more...] about Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACTOctober 16, 2016 1 Comment A Labor Force on the Move
A century ago, the economic corridor in Northern Arizona was primarily made up of smaller economies - very separate and very different.

Flagstaff was all … [Read more...] about A Labor Force on the Move« Previous PageFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939