Education - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


EducationAugust 8, 2019 Leave a Comment NAU Internships Provide Experience & Employee Pipeline
As Northern Arizona University students return for the fall term later this month, many will be looking for the chance to use what they've learned so far … [Read more...] about NAU Internships Provide Experience & Employee PipelineMay 16, 2019 Leave a Comment A Different Way of Looking at NAU Impact
With graduation weekend just behind us, we read with interest a report from Northern Arizona University that included some unique statistics about NAU's … [Read more...] about A Different Way of Looking at NAU ImpactMarch 7, 2018 Leave a Comment LAUNCH Flagstaff Focusing on Internships
A guiding principle of LAUNCH Flagstaff is that the education consortium's interests are not limited to the years when students are in primary and secondary … [Read more...] about LAUNCH Flagstaff Focusing on InternshipsJanuary 24, 2018 Leave a Comment Q&A with Dr. Rita Cheng of NAU
Northern Arizona University is at a time of exciting time of opportunity, transition, and growth in its academic and research mission. It seemed like a great … [Read more...] about Q&A with Dr. Rita Cheng of NAUJanuary 3, 2018 Leave a Comment Q&A with President Colleen Smith of CCC
Recently, ECoNA Executive Board member and Coconino Community College President Dr. Colleen A. Smith was appointed to the Arizona Commission for … [Read more...] about Q&A with President Colleen Smith of CCCNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939