ECONA Connects at CES Show - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


January 19, 2017 Leave a Comment ECONA Connects at CES Show
For tech enthusiasts worldwide, Christmas really doesn’t come until early January, when the Consumer Technology Association holds its CES trade show in Las Vegas. The four-day gadget fest, formerly known as the Consumer Electronics Show, always promises exciting news and the debut of next-generation innovations from the 3,800 companies that participate.
Celebrating its 50th anniversary, CES drew more than 175,000 people this year, including a team from the Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona and City of Flagstaff.
Why did we go? Well, while it’s great to keep up with the latest in self-driving cars, virtual reality applications and the growing “internet of things,” our real target was the 600 or so start-up companies featured at CES’s Eureka Park Marketplace in the Sand’s Expo.
For every established concern at CES – the Sonys, Samsungs, and Casios – there are entrepreneurs who have not decided where they will locate their fledgling businesses.
Some are searching for incubator or accelerator space. Others are looking for support from a community that “gets” the importance of the tech sector. Many were seeking a location that speaks to their active lifestyles.
The CES show gave us the unique opportunity to showcase the many benefits of making northern Arizona their new home. We talked about the facilities and mentoring available from NACET, the strong educational partner we have in Northern Arizona University, and the unparalleled lifestyle here.
It was exciting to talk with these young men and women, who seemed boundless in their creativity and enthusiasm. As my colleague Carol Covington noted, our tech future is in good hands with them.
Equally exciting was the knowledge that they will be the source of the high-wage, low-impact businesses ECoNA seeks to bring to the region as part of our multi-faceted approach to a strong and diverse economy in northern Arizona.
We are looking forward to continuing the conversation with the entrepreneurs we met at CES, and keeping locations such as Flagstaff, Williams, Winslow and Page top of mind as they plan the future – and future homes – of their companies.
Filed Under: Business Attraction Tagged With: Business Attraction, Economic DevelopmentReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939