Moonshot 'Makers & Shakers' Celebrates Entrepreneurs - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


December 3, 2020 Leave a Comment Moonshot ‘Makers & Shakers’ Celebrates Entrepreneurs
Moonshot at NACET, the entrepreneurship program based in northern Arizona, is celebrating the spirit of startups during its inaugural Makers & Shakers Week, a series of online workshops, presentations and live Q&A’s with entrepreneurs.
The free week-long virtual event honors current businesses and showcases Moonshot innovators, mentors and instructors. The goal is to educate and inspire viewers who might be considering starting their own businesses, according to Moonshot President & CEO Scott Hathcock.
“We’ll show you how to play an active role in revitalizing our local economy by starting companies that create local jobs,” he added.

The presentations are split between morning workshops and happy hour keynotes and interviews. Businesses and entrepreneurs being featured include:

Steve Reese, Phoenix Suns CIO
Momo Vuyisich, Chief Science Officer, Viome
Dan Kasprzyk, Founder, Poba Medical
Charlie Horn, entrepreneur and investor

Workshops will cover essential skills and practical topics for startups, including publicity, legal considerations, licensing, securing funding, sale and HR and corporate culture.
We are looking forward to viewing these sessions and learning from these proven entrepreneurs and experts. You can find out more at moonshotaz.com.
Filed Under: Entrepreneurship Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939