Education - ECoNA











































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


EducationMay 14, 2020 Leave a Comment Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten Sinema
Last week, local business and government leaders discussed what is needed to speed up the region's economic recovery during a Zoom call with U.S. Senator … [Read more...] about Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten SinemaSeptember 21, 2017 Leave a Comment Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid Dineen
Flagstaff STEM City recently celebrated its 5th anniversary and we caught up with its new Executive Director Brigid Dineen to talk about what brought her to … [Read more...] about Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid DineenJuly 13, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s New School Superintendent
For Michael Penca, Flagstaff's new superintendent of schools, the inspiration to pursue a career in education originated with the teachers who taught him back … [Read more...] about Flagstaff’s New School SuperintendentMarch 22, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s Education Sector Impact
It would be difficult to overestimate the impact Flagstaff's educational sector has on our community. In addition to the sheer number of employees who are … [Read more...] about Flagstaff’s Education Sector ImpactFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939