Entrepreneurship - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


EntrepreneurshipJanuary 8, 2021 1 Comment Thornager’s Opens Up Kitchen to Food Entrepreneurs
A commercial kitchen that until recently was the catering arm of Thornager's on Kiltie Lane is finding a new life as an affordable testing ground for food … [Read more...] about Thornager’s Opens Up Kitchen to Food EntrepreneursDecember 3, 2020 Leave a Comment Moonshot ‘Makers & Shakers’ Celebrates Entrepreneurs
Moonshot at NACET, the entrepreneurship program based in northern Arizona, is celebrating the spirit of startups during its inaugural Makers & Shakers Week, … [Read more...] about Moonshot ‘Makers & Shakers’ Celebrates EntrepreneursOctober 30, 2018 Leave a Comment SEDI Micro-loans for Local Businesses
Our friends at the Sustainable Economic Development Initiative (SEDI) have a great program to assist small businesses.

For more than four years, SEDI's … [Read more...] about SEDI Micro-loans for Local BusinessesSeptember 25, 2018 Leave a Comment ECoNA Profile: Tim Kinney
In recent years, Flagstaff has made a name for itself as a pioneer of responsible, earth-friendly building practices, particularly the construction of … [Read more...] about ECoNA Profile: Tim KinneyJune 14, 2017 Leave a Comment AZ Gaining as Entrepreneurial Hub
According to a recently released report by the Kauffman Foundation, Arizona has become one of the nation's hubs of entrepreneurial activity, and is one of the … [Read more...] about AZ Gaining as Entrepreneurial HubNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939