Happy Manufacturing Month - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 1, 2020 Leave a Comment Happy Manufacturing Month
Welcome to Manufacturing Month!
Nationwide, the industry uses the month of October to showcase the potential of modern manufacturing and generate interest in manufacturing careers. According to the Manufacturing Institute, the sector will be looking to fill 4.6 million high-skill and high-paying jobs over the next decade.
Northern Arizona has a wide range of manufacturing businesses in the region, from the area’s largest private employer, W.L. Gore, to smaller companies producing everything from defense products to spices.

Additional manufacturing opportunities on the horizon
More manufacturing opportunities for the region may be on the way. During the second quarter of this year – in the midst of the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic – ECoNA fielded 11 inquiries from manufacturers that were considering northern Arizona as a location for their business.
These companies would represent almost 3,500 jobs for our region and about $1.3 billion in capital investment.
There are a couple of factors that should be noted that have helped with resurgence of manufacturing. The first is passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) which became effective in July.
According to the National Association of Manufacturers, the renegotiation of the NAFTA accord: “expands U.S. manufacturing’s ability to export products abroad, ensuring manufacturers can sell their products duty free and eliminating red tape at the border that often hinders small- and medium-sized businesses seeking to sell their products in both Canada and Mexico.”
Credit also has to go to the Arizona Commerce Authority under the leadership of President and CEO Sandra Watson and Executive Vice President, Business Development Paul Hughes, who have made a concerted effort to make sure all of Arizona benefits from potential new manufacturing ventures.
We’ll be focusing on manufacturing all this month, including notable segments like medical devices and the food industry, as well as the future of manufacturing in our region, including potential development at Camp Navajo. Stay tuned.
Filed Under: Manufacturing Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939