Looking to the Future for ECoNA - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


January 9, 2020 Leave a Comment Looking to the Future for ECoNA
I am very excited to be serving as the Interim President and CEO of the Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona (ECoNA) and wanted to take this opportunity to share with you some of the experience I bring to this position and my immediate goals for this great organization.
I came to Flagstaff in 2004 from Carmel, California, where my background was primarily in the hospitality sector with an emphasis on luxury resort sales.
For most of my time in Flagstaff, I worked for the City, initially in the Convention and Visitors Bureau. As a meeting and events specialist, I booked more than $2 million in conference business for the City in one summer alone.
It was apparent, however, that one of the keys to Flagstaff’s economic vitality was to diversify and expand beyond the tourism sector. So when the opportunity arose to become the City’s Business Attraction Manager, I eagerly shifted gears to economic development.
My role in the City’s Economic Vitality division meant I worked closely with ECoNA on a variety of issues, including efforts to bring new manufacturing companies to the region and the creation of a landmark study on workforce housing in the city.
I am a member of the International Economic Development Council and the Arizona Association of Economic Development. I was honored to be recently named by AZ Big Media as one of the “People to Know” in commercial real estate for their 2020 edition of PTK Magazine.
As I take the reins here at ECoNA, my immediate goal is to help our region rebrand itself to better reflect who we are and where we want to go in this new decade. I will be looking at restructuring ECoNA’s economic development committees to ensure we have the right teams in place to create a climate where businesses can compete and thrive. Lastly, as our region grows, it’s time to look at increasing our collaborative partnerships throughout northern Arizona.
I look forward to working closely with all of you as we pursue opportunities that will benefit our entire region, the business community, and the lives of all our residents.
Filed Under: Leadership Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939