APS Helping Small Businesses Go Green - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


April 29, 2021 Leave a Comment APS Helping Small Businesses Go Green
APS has launched a new initiative to help small businesses embrace environmental sustainability and win more customers along the way.
The Going Green and Going Smart program is a free, on-demand certificate program that identifies ways businesses can save money on their electric bills by leveraging industry knowledge and best businesses practices.
Designed with smaller brick-and-mortar locations in mind – such as restaurants, offices, stores or warehouses – it teaches businesses how to conduct an energy audit and develop a sustainability plan. Going beyond that, however, it also shows how businesses can use their new energy efficiency to attract new customers.

According to a report last year by the IBM Institute for Business Value and National Retail Federation, sustainability has reached a tipping point with profound impacts on how consumers feel about brands.
About 77% of the consumers surveyed in the study say it is at least “moderately” important to them that the businesses they support are sustainable and environmentally responsible. Almost 6 out of every 10 are willing to change their purchasing habits to help reduce negative impact to the environment.
Key topics in the APS green initiative include:

How businesses benefit from greater sustainability.
Using smart energy devices
Water conservation
Managing waste and reducing your company’s carbon footprint

Additionally, the program explores additional savings through APS rebates and offers a private learning community of participants so that businesses can learn from each other.
APS has a strong roster of programs designed to assist our business community and new entrepreneurs. Last year, it rolled out SizeUp Arizona, a free digital tool that connected small and medium businesses with market research in their sector, so they could fine-tune their business models.
APS is also very active in supporting economic development organizations throughout the state, including ECoNA, where we recently welcomed Kelly Patton, manager of the utility’s statewide economic development programs, to our Executive Board.
Check out the APS Going Green and Going Smart initiative at greenbizaz.com and learn more about how greater sustainability can transform your business.
Filed Under: Uncategorized Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939