Leadership - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


LeadershipJuly 27, 2021 Leave a Comment Q&A with Flagstaff City Manager Greg Clifton
Greg Clifton has been the Flagstaff City Manager since August 2019 and is a member of the ECoNA Board of Directors. We asked him about his background and how … [Read more...] about Q&A with Flagstaff City Manager Greg CliftonJanuary 22, 2021 Leave a Comment New Members Join Board
As we celebrate a new year and look forward to the recovery of our local economy, I wanted to take a moment to welcome the new members of ECoNA's Executive … [Read more...] about New Members Join BoardSeptember 16, 2020 Leave a Comment Senator McSally Meets with Advisory Council
Last week, members of the ECoNA Board and Advisory Council met via teleconference with U.S. Senator Martha McSally to talk about the state of our recovery, … [Read more...] about Senator McSally Meets with Advisory CouncilMay 14, 2020 Leave a Comment Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten Sinema
Last week, local business and government leaders discussed what is needed to speed up the region's economic recovery during a Zoom call with U.S. Senator … [Read more...] about Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten SinemaJanuary 9, 2020 Leave a Comment Looking to the Future for ECoNA
I am very excited to be serving as the Interim President and CEO of the Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona (ECoNA) and wanted to take this opportunity … [Read more...] about Looking to the Future for ECoNANext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939