SEDI Micro-loans for Local Businesses - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 30, 2018 Leave a Comment SEDI Micro-loans for Local Businesses
Our friends at the Sustainable Economic Development Initiative (SEDI) have a great program to assist small businesses.
For more than four years, SEDI’s Dollars for Dreams business micro-loan program has been helping entrepreneurs make their dreams come true and created new jobs in our community.
They have money available to lend to northern Arizona start-ups, existing businesses and home-based ventures lacking established credit and access to capital.
Loan amounts are based on the number of jobs they will help create. Additionally, the loans help SEDI borrowers learn about and establish credit. SEDI reports loan payments to national credit agencies, and mentors clients on best practices to grow their businesses.
The short-term loans (with a 24-month maximum term) have an annual interest rate of 3.5 percent. There are no application fees or loan origination charges. SEDI is particularly interested in making loans to Native American and minority business owners and entrepreneurs.
If you know of a business that wants to expand or an entrepreneur who wants to launch a startup in Apache, Coconino, Mohave, Navajo or Yavapai Counties that could create jobs and could benefit from a micro-loan, please have them contact Eric Marcus for more information at eric.marcus@narbha.org.
Growing our own businesses right here in northern Arizona is one of the best economic development investments we can make. Micro-loans have macro benefits.
Filed Under: Entrepreneurship Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939