Uncategorized - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


UncategorizedAugust 27, 2021 Leave a Comment Using Virtual Reality for Workforce Development
Coconino County and the Workforce Development Board are leading the way in helping dislocated workers and students explore new careers through virtual … [Read more...] about Using Virtual Reality for Workforce DevelopmentAugust 12, 2021 Leave a Comment Meeting the Challenge of the Delta Variant
As the Delta variant causes a surge in new infections and hospitalizations, the public and private sectors are scrambling to keep up with rapidly shifting … [Read more...] about Meeting the Challenge of the Delta VariantJuly 15, 2021 Leave a Comment Navajo Nation and Twin Arrows Reopen
It's not an exaggeration to say that over the past 18 months, the Navajo Nation was one of the areas hardest hit by the pandemic. As of this week, the tribe … [Read more...] about Navajo Nation and Twin Arrows ReopenApril 29, 2021 Leave a Comment APS Helping Small Businesses Go Green
APS has launched a new initiative to help small businesses embrace environmental sustainability and win more customers along the way.

The Going Green and … [Read more...] about APS Helping Small Businesses Go GreenMarch 24, 2021 Leave a Comment Bioscience Roadmap Update on April 14
ECoNA will debut a video about our local bioscience sector at the annual Bioscience Roadmap hosted by the Flinn Foundation. This virtual meeting will be held … [Read more...] about Bioscience Roadmap Update on April 14Next Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939