Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACT - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


February 14, 2017 Leave a Comment Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACT
Earlier this month, ECoNA was one of six recipients of the 2nd Annual Goodwill of Northern Arizona Community IMPACT Awards.
We were very proud to receive the “Collective Community IMPACT Award.” The name of the honor was more than appropriate, as our work is only possible because of the collaborative effort of private, public and non-profit entities to ensure the region’s economic vitality.
Our fellow recipients were amazing and inspiring. They included individuals who had overcome extreme hardships and gone on to fulfilling work lives with the help of Goodwill. Little America Hotel was recognized for its enduring commitment to take a chance on those with barriers to the work world, such as lack of experience or a criminal record.
We also would be remiss in not giving a special shout out to one of our Board members who was honored. Dr. Colleen Smith, President of Coconino Community College, was named Goodwill’s Ambassador of the Year. Her infectious enthusiasm for Goodwill and its workforce development mission made her an obvious choice for the award.
We are very thankful to Goodwill of Northern Arizona for this honor. To learn more about all of the Community IMPACT Award recipients, including videos of their accomplishments, please click here.
Filed Under: Workforce Tagged With: Economic Development, WorkforceReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939