Doing Business Here - ECoNA
































































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us
































INSPIRED INNOVATION AT A HIGHER ELEVATION






What is it like doing business here? The economic landscape of Northern Arizona is as diverse as its scenery. Our area ranges from the towering, tree-filled heights of the San Francisco Peaks to the broad, arid expanses of the Painted Desert. We have lakes, forests, ancient ruins and modern architecture. Similarly, our economic centers range from the microbe to the stars. Major commercial and industry sectors include:
 
























Education 
Flagstaff is home to the main campus of Northern Arizona University, one of the three public universities in Arizona. With 95 undergraduate programs and 76 graduate programs, NAU has particularly strong schools in engineering, the natural sciences, forestry and business, and has a cutting-edge School of Informatics, Computing, and Cyber Systems. Coconino Community College offers associate degrees ranging from accounting to nursing to construction technology. 
 

















BioScience & Healthcare 
Northern Arizona Healthcare runs major hospitals and medical centers in Flagstaff, Winslow and the Verde Valley. The Rehabilitation Hospital of Northern Arizona provides intensive rehabilitation services to people recovering from disabling diseases or injuries. Additionally, Northern Arizona is a hub of bioscience innovations with companies and non-profits such as W.L. Gore & Associates, TGen North, Poba Medical, Machine Solutions, Symple Surgical and SenesTech.
 

















Manufacturing 
Our vibrant manufacturing sectors includes clean, modern factories producing food products for humans and pets (Joy Cone, Pepsi Bottling Co. of Flagstaff, Nestle Purina Pet Care, Love You Foods); medical devices and accessories (W.L. Gore & Associates, Machine Solutions, Prent Thermoforming); and aerospace/defense components (Novakinetics Aerosystems, Kinetic Defense).
 

























Astronomy 
Northern Arizona is home to Lowell Observatory, one of the oldest observatories in the United State, as well as the and the U.S. Naval Observatory Flagstaff Station.
 

















Digital 
Featuring the high-speed connectivity of a 1GB community and surrounded by some of the most stunning vistas in the country, the greater Flagstaff metropolitan area is quickly becoming a mecca for digital entrepreneurs including IT specialists, website designers and app developers.
 

















Tourism 
The Northern Arizona region draws countless tourists each year. In addition to the millions of out of state visitors to the Grand Canyon and other destinations, there is healthy in-state tourism as well, as those living in Phoenix and Flagstaff travel north for cooler temps in the summer and skiing/snowplay in the winter.
 



















Tax Abatements & Incentives: A wide variety of tax abatements and incentives are available at the state and local levels.
For details, please contact Interim ECONA President & CEO Gail Jackson at (928) 707-7528 / gjackson@econa-az.com.
To learn more about available commercial and industrial space in Flagstaff, click here.
























Highways 
Flagstaff is the crossroads of two major Interstates – the east/west I-40 and I-17, which begins at Flagstaff and ends 145 miles to the south in Phoenix.
 

















Airports 
The major airport in the region is Flagstaff (Pulliam) Airport, which provides commercial air service via United and American Airlines to Phoenix, Denver and Dallas.
 

















Trains 
The region has close proximity to the West Coast via BNSF Trancon and between 80 and 120 freight trains pass through the region each day. Passenger rail service is available through Amtrak.
 

















Bus 
NAIPTA, named America’s best transit system in 2013, runs a fixed bus route system within Flagstaff and vanpool services for commuters traveling to and from Flagstaff. For travel outside of the region, there is also Flixbus and Greyhound.
 



















Top Employers in Northern Arizona(and number of employees)













Northern Arizona University (2,815)
Flagstaff Medical Center (2,350)
W.L. Gore & Associates (2,300)
Flagstaff Unified School District (1,385)
Coconino County (1,200)
City of Flagstaff (989)
Walmart (630)
BNSF (600)












Navajo Nation Gaming (514)
Grand Canyon Railway (421)
Nestle Purina PetCare (305)
Coconino Community College (300)
North Country Healthcare (275)
Little America Hotel (275)
The Guidance Center (210)
US Forest Service (200)












Hozhoni Foundation (170)
Peaks Senior Living Center (140)
Joy Cone (133)
Rehabilitative Hospital of Northern Arizona (120)
Pepsi-Cola Bottling (120)
Doubletree by Hilton Flagstaff (120)
IML Containers (100)
Schuff Steel (99)










FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939