Economic Development - Page 4 of 4 - ECoNA











































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


Economic DevelopmentDecember 6, 2016 Leave a Comment Another Banner Year for Flagstaff Tourism
The economic vitality of our region is a puzzle with many pieces - emerging and traditional business sectors, housing, education and workforce development, to … [Read more...] about Another Banner Year for Flagstaff TourismNovember 3, 2016 Leave a Comment Williams: Staying Power in Changing Times
Williams, Arizona may not be a huge metropolis (the estimated population is less than 3,200 people), but as Mayor John W. Moore likes to say, it's a small town … [Read more...] about Williams: Staying Power in Changing TimesOctober 16, 2016 1 Comment A Labor Force on the Move
A century ago, the economic corridor in Northern Arizona was primarily made up of smaller economies - very separate and very different.

Flagstaff was all … [Read more...] about A Labor Force on the MoveOctober 4, 2016 Leave a Comment Sunnyside’s Market of Dreams
Entrepreneurship is rarely easy, and the challenges multiply for micro-business ventures that often don't have access to traditional capital or a storefront … [Read more...] about Sunnyside’s Market of Dreams« Previous PageFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939