Sunnyside's Market of Dreams - ECoNA































































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 4, 2016 Leave a Comment Sunnyside’s Market of Dreams
Entrepreneurship is rarely easy, and the challenges multiply for micro-business ventures that often don’t have access to traditional capital or a storefront where they can offer their goods and services.
That’s why ECONA has always been supportive of those organizations that offer unique opportunities for economic development in our region. One of the most exciting is the Market of Dreams in Sunnyside.
The Market of Dreams, located at 2532 E. 7th Avenue is a micro-entrepreneurship center and community supported marketplace operated seven days a week by the Sunnyside Neighborhood Association (SNA) of Flagstaff.
SNA started the Market of Dreams in early 2015 as a way to combat poverty in the neighborhood by empowering residents to create their own small businesses. It also offers residents the ability to gain job skills while encouraging entrepreneurship, business management and grassroots leadership.
Since its opening, more than 50 individuals have used the shared retail space, and four members have gone on to open their own small businesses outside of the market. The Market now also has a food incubator and a fully licensed food cart it operates in the downtown area and at special events in the region.
More than 150 individuals have contacted the Market of Dreams for information about starting their own businesses and the market’s services have grown to include a community radio station run by volunteers, community-building workshops, and free classes on everything from writing a resume to conversational Spanish.
You can learn more about The Market of Dreams by visiting their Facebook page or checking out this video.
ECONA applauds the SNA and its community-based effort to foster both entrepreneurship and community pride in the Sunnyside area.
Filed Under: Entrepreneurship Tagged With: Economic Development, Entrepreneurship, FlagstaffReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939