Healthcare - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us
































Healthcare in Northern Arizona








































Northern Arizona Healthcare (NAH) is the largest healthcare organization in a region that encompasses more than 50,000 square miles. Its boasts a team of more than 3,000 doctors, nurses and other experts works and serves more than 700,000 people in communities across the region.


















NAH provides comprehensive healthcare services through two hospitals – Flagstaff Medical Center and Verde Valley Medical Center – as well as through primary care and specialty physician clinics, outpatient surgical centers, the Heart & Vascular Center of Northern Arizona, Cancer Centers of Northern Arizona Healthcare, EntireCare Rehab & Sports Medicine, Fit Kids of Arizona, Guardian Air and Guardian Medical Transport and Valley View Care.
Flagstaff Medical Center is one of only 10 Arizona hospitals with a Level 1 Trauma Center designation and the only one north of Phoenix.
As a nonprofit healthcare system, the organization is governed by a volunteer board of directors.

























































North Country HealthCare
 is the primary community health center in the region. In 1991, a small group of doctors and nurses, health and human service representatives and consumers worked together to establish the Flagstaff Community Free Clinic. In 1996, the clinic transitioned from a volunteer organization into a state and federally funded community health center. 



































SPECIALISTS


















There are also several large-scale independent specialist facilities, such as Northern Arizona Orthopaedics, the largest bone, muscle and joint specialty practice in the region.









FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939