Uncategorized - Page 6 of 7 - ECoNA














































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


UncategorizedSeptember 5, 2019 Leave a Comment Q&A with Jonathan Stone, Flagstaff Arts Council
Earlier this year, the Flagstaff Arts Council (FAC) became the first of four cultural organizations to hire new leadership, along with Theatrikos, the Flagstaff … [Read more...] about Q&A with Jonathan Stone, Flagstaff Arts CouncilJuly 11, 2019 Leave a Comment Educators Learning to ‘Beat the Odds’
School may be out for summer, but a group of 23 educators in Flagstaff recently embarked on a 14-month program designed to foster strong learning environments … [Read more...] about Educators Learning to ‘Beat the Odds’May 31, 2019 Leave a Comment Harkins – A Blockbuster in Flagstaff
Warmer weather means blockbuster movies in the theaters and this year is no exception. Avengers: Endgame is closing in on $3 billion (yes, that's a "b") in … [Read more...] about Harkins – A Blockbuster in FlagstaffApril 20, 2019 Leave a Comment Bioscience Roadmap Highlights in NAZ
Each year, the Flinn Foundation provides an update on the state's Bioscience Roadmap, a collaborative plan that will continue until 2025 to make Arizona a … [Read more...] about Bioscience Roadmap Highlights in NAZMarch 28, 2019 Leave a Comment Goodwill Expanding Services & Locations
It's been almost two years since Goodwill Industries of Northern Arizona (GINA) merged with its sister to the south, the Phoenix-based Goodwill of Central … [Read more...] about Goodwill Expanding Services & Locations« Previous PageNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939