Uncategorized - Page 7 of 7 - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


UncategorizedFebruary 12, 2019 Leave a Comment TGen Working to Unravel AFM Mystery
The bioscience sector, a continually growing part of the economy in northern Arizona, often brings our region national and even international acclaim.

It is … [Read more...] about TGen Working to Unravel AFM MysteryJanuary 22, 2019 Leave a Comment NAU Innovations Seeking Community Partnerships
At last week's ECoNA Advisory Council, dozens of our partners in economic growth heard from NAU Innovations, which is on a quest to increase community … [Read more...] about NAU Innovations Seeking Community PartnershipsJanuary 10, 2019 Leave a Comment Telecommuting’s Impact Continues to Grow
A recent report on the state of telecommuting shows that it's continuing to have an outsized impact on the American workforce.

According to the 2017 State of … [Read more...] about Telecommuting’s Impact Continues to GrowDecember 11, 2018 Leave a Comment The ECoNA Q&A: Armando Bernasconi of QCoffice
Quality Connections is a unique non-profit in Flagstaff that uses a commercial office supply business (QCoffice) to provide its clients with work experience to … [Read more...] about The ECoNA Q&A: Armando Bernasconi of QCofficeNovember 21, 2017 Leave a Comment Thankful to be in Northern Arizona
In Northern Arizona, we have much to be thankful for.

We live in an area that is noted for its natural beauty and awe-inspiring landmarks, from the Grand … [Read more...] about Thankful to be in Northern Arizona« Previous PageFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939