Economic Development - Page 3 of 4 - ECoNA











































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


Economic DevelopmentMarch 22, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s Education Sector Impact
It would be difficult to overestimate the impact Flagstaff's educational sector has on our community. In addition to the sheer number of employees who are … [Read more...] about Flagstaff’s Education Sector ImpactMarch 3, 2017 1 Comment Crunching the Numbers in Flagstaff
Most people who are aware of the Flagstaff Prospector website identify it as a tool for finding commercial office space, buildings or land available for lease … [Read more...] about Crunching the Numbers in FlagstaffFebruary 14, 2017 Leave a Comment Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACT
Earlier this month, ECoNA was one of six recipients of the 2nd Annual Goodwill of Northern Arizona Community IMPACT Awards.

We were very proud to receive the … [Read more...] about Goodwill Honors ECONA for Its IMPACTJanuary 19, 2017 Leave a Comment ECONA Connects at CES Show
For tech enthusiasts worldwide, Christmas really doesn't come until early January, when the Consumer Technology Association holds its CES trade show in Las … [Read more...] about ECONA Connects at CES ShowJanuary 11, 2017 Leave a Comment A New Chapter for NACET
We recently checked in with the new, dynamic leader of the Northern Arizona Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology (NACET) to see what his plans are for the … [Read more...] about A New Chapter for NACET« Previous PageNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939