Virtual 'Open Houses' on Milton Rd and US 180 Next Week - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


November 12, 2020 Leave a Comment Virtual ‘Open Houses’ on Milton Rd and US 180 Next Week
The Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) will be holding two virtual “open houses” next week to discuss the future of two major traffic corridors in Flagstaff that often suffer from congestion, particularly during the summer and winter months when tourists come to escape the heat and play in the snow.
The focus of the two online meetings will be Milton Road and the U.S. 180 corridor, primarily Fort Valley Road and Humphreys Street. Often gridlocked at the best of times, these roadways need improvements to keep up with university, population and visitation growth.

The online meeting to discuss the master plan for Milton Avenue will be Wednesday, Nov. 18 and the session on U.S. 180 master plan will be Thursday, Nov. 19. Both sessions begin at 6:30 p.m. with a pre-recorded presentation about the roadways followed by a live Q&A session starting at 7 p.m.
More than two years ago, ADOT held public meetings to obtain input on developing corridor improvement alternatives for Milton Road, Humphreys Street, and U.S. 180. In the sessions next week, ADOT representatives will summarize the results of the technical analyses of the two corridors and seek public input on potential options to improve the roadways. ADOT will use stakeholder and public feedback gathered in the next few weeks before making its final recommendations.
To access the sessions go to Milton Road Corridor Master Plan and U.S. 180 Corridor Master Plan.
You can visit those pages beforehand to see the scope of the projects and some of the proposed alternatives. If you cannot attend either session, these materials and the presentation will be at those links until Dec. 4.
We look forward to seeing the possible changes that could ultimately make getting around Flagstaff a little easier.
Filed Under: Tourism Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939