Celebrating the Next Stage of FUTS - ECoNA
























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 26, 2016 Leave a Comment Celebrating the Next Stage of FUTS
One of the region’s enduring amenities is the Flagstaff Urban Trail System (FUTS), the city-wide network of non-motorized, shared-use pathways available to walkers, hikers, runners and bicyclists for recreation and transportation.
More than 50 miles of trails have been established since the system began in the late 1980s, and there more than 75 miles of planned future trails.
You are invited to join Coconino Supervisor Mandy Metzger on Thursday, November 3 at 10:30 am to celebrate the launch of the next stage of the FUTS trail – the Rio de Flag extension that will ultimately connect Flagstaff to the Picture Canyon Preserve.
The event will be at the Coconino County Public Works Yard, 5600 E. Commerce Ave. This first phase of the extension goes through the public works yard, which – like Picture Canyon – is within the supervisor’s district.
Picture Canyon (so named for the hundreds of pictographs and archaeological remains left by the Sinagua tribe prior to European settlement) was purchased by the City of Flagstaff in 2012.
“The acquisition of Picture Canyon is an excellent example of how our community, using voter approved resources, can protect a special place in perpetuity,” said Metzger.
Filed Under: Quality of Life Tagged With: Flagstaff, Lifestyle, RecreationReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939