NAU Economic Outlook Conference Nov. 9 - ECoNA























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 19, 2017 Leave a Comment NAU Economic Outlook Conference Nov. 9
Each November, the W.A. Franke College of Business at Northern Arizona University draws leading experts to Flagstaff to discuss the economic outlook for the coming year at the international, national, state and local level.
Now in its 42nd year, the Economic Outlook Conference has featured keynote speakers from the worlds of financial, government and business. Past speakers include former U.S. Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, Motley Fool columnist Morgan Housel and the namesake of NAU business college, Bill Franke, who has led companies as diverse as Circle K and US Airways.
This year’s guest will be David Walker senior strategic advisor for the Global Public Sector Practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
A former CPA with more than 20 years of private sector experience and another 15 years in government service, Walker received Presidential appointments from both Democrats and Republicans. He was Comptroller General of the United States and the head of the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
He will be joined by several local and regional economic experts at the event. Elliott Pollack of Elliott D. Pollack and Company will offer his insights on the statewide economy, while two of the business college’s instructors, Professor Ronald Gunderson and Senior Lecturer Dennis Foster, will look at regional economic trends and analyze interest rates and inflation, respectively.
Seats are still available to this always interesting and often enlightening event. You can register here.
Filed Under: Education Tagged With: Economic Outlook, Northern Arizona UniversityReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939