The Grand Canyon: Then & Now (May 11 Event) - ECoNA






























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


May 2, 2017 Leave a Comment The Grand Canyon: Then & Now (May 11 Event)
Arizona Forward, a coalition of business and civic leaders committed to both environmental sustainability and economic vitality in the state, are hosting a discussion on the Grand Canyon next week featuring renowned artist Bruce Aiken.
The Grand Canyon: Then & Now gives Aiken’s unique perspective on the recent history of the Grand Canyon, which he has captured in hundreds of paintings, drawings, pastels and other creative media.
But Aiken is also a National Park Service employee and has lived in the Canyon for more than three decades, raising a family there.
Topics to be discussed at the luncheon will be observations of the sustainability of the Grand Canyon; current threats to the National Park; and little-known historical aspects of water and human activity in the park.
One of today’s leading painters of the Grand Canyon and the American Southwest, Aiken will share his lifelong study of the Canyon through personal insights ranging from botany to geology to human resource issues.
The Grand Canyon: Then & Now
A 40-Year Perspective Featuring Bruce Aiken
11:30 am – 1 pm, Thursday, May 11
High Country Conference Center
$65/Person; $600/Table
Discounts for Students/Arizona Forward Members
REGISTER HERE TODAY
For those of us in Northern Arizona, the Grand Canyon is not only vital to the economic health of the region, it is an awe-inspiring wonder of the land we are fortunate enough to call home. ECoNA is proud to join Luncheon Sponsor Northern Arizona University in supporting this extraordinary event, and we strongly encourage you to attend.
Filed Under: Tourism Tagged With: Grand Canyon, TourismReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939