Workforce - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


WorkforceJune 10, 2021 Leave a Comment Workers Wanted
With almost half of all Arizonans fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and new infection rates dropping dramatically, our economy is poised to resurge. Businesses … [Read more...] about Workers WantedAugust 8, 2019 Leave a Comment NAU Internships Provide Experience & Employee Pipeline
As Northern Arizona University students return for the fall term later this month, many will be looking for the chance to use what they've learned so far … [Read more...] about NAU Internships Provide Experience & Employee PipelineJuly 31, 2018 Leave a Comment The Gig Economy, Inward Migration & Flagstaff
One of the many ways ECoNA measures the state of our regional economy is looking at amounts of jobs in the annual wage survey from the Bureau of Labor … [Read more...] about The Gig Economy, Inward Migration & FlagstaffJanuary 3, 2018 Leave a Comment Q&A with President Colleen Smith of CCC
Recently, ECoNA Executive Board member and Coconino Community College President Dr. Colleen A. Smith was appointed to the Arizona Commission for … [Read more...] about Q&A with President Colleen Smith of CCCSeptember 21, 2017 Leave a Comment Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid Dineen
Flagstaff STEM City recently celebrated its 5th anniversary and we caught up with its new Executive Director Brigid Dineen to talk about what brought her to … [Read more...] about Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid DineenNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939