Flagstaff's New School Superintendent - ECoNA































































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


July 13, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s New School Superintendent
For Michael Penca, Flagstaff’s new superintendent of schools, the inspiration to pursue a career in education originated with the teachers who taught him back when he was a student.
“I still marvel at the way my high school chemistry teacher, Mr. Fleagle, ignited a passion for learning in me with his challenging questions, discovery experiments and personal connections,” he recalled. “I headed off to the University of Iowa wanting to be a science teacher just like him.”
Along the way, the 43-year-old discovered a love of working with younger students and became a kindergarten teacher. Over the next 20 years, Penca taught and then eventually went the administrative route. He served as a school principal, then a district administrator, and most recently as the interim superintendent of the Mason City Community School District in north central Iowa.
Penca had visited Flagstaff before on family trips to the Grand Canyon and his daughter’s college visit to Northern Arizona University. He said he was impressed with the friendliness of the residents, the thriving historic downtown and the recreational opportunities. He told his wife, Kristine, also an educator, that he’d like to live in Flagstaff one day, maybe after they retired.
When the interim superintendent post in Mason City did not materialize into a permanent position, Kristine got on her laptop to look for superintendent openings – and saw one for Flagstaff.
Christine Fredericks, president of the Flagstaff Unified School District’s governing board, said Penca impressed during his interview with his thoughtfulness and ability to see the “whole picture.”
“He’s a true leader and he’s known for being very collaborative,” she said. “We have a really strong team here, and I feel he’s going to work well with them and make Flagstaff schools even better.”
Kristine Penca will also be joining the FUSD team as a 7th grade teacher in the MIT-e initiative, a STEM-based magnet program at Sinagua Middle School.
Penca said his first step will be engaging stakeholders, including staff, students, parents and community partners through meetings and surveys, and using that information to guide the district forward.
“I can tell you I have been very impressed with the pride FUSD staff have about the district, their students and the Flagstaff community,” said Penca, specifically citing some of the unique educational programs and the way the district meets the needs of a diverse population of students. “I am excited to have the opportunity to serve in such a progressive district.”
ECoNA welcomes Michael Penca to his new role leading our public schools in Flagstaff and looks forward to the district’s continual improvement under his leadership.
Filed Under: Education Tagged With: Education, Flagstaff, Public SchoolsReader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939