Promoting Our Region to Attract Companies - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


February 13, 2020 Leave a Comment Promoting Our Region to Attract Companies
Greetings from Anaheim, California, and Medical Design & Manufacturing (MD&M) West – the world’s largest trade show for MD&M companies. More than 20,000 bioscience professionals are here, including representatives from W.L. Gore, POBA Medical, Symple Surgical, Machine Solutions and Development Engineering Sciences.
It’s no surprise that northern Arizona is so well represented at MD&M West; Flagstaff is 14 times more specialized in bioscience jobs than the rest of the country.
This is my second trade show in as many months, having attended the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) at the start of the year. The reason ECoNA attends these events is simple: we are promoting our assets to attract companies to this region, both to help them grow and to make our local economy stronger.
And we have no shortage of assets to promote. From beautiful surroundings and a high quality of life to Moonshot at NACET and NAU Innovations, our region has a lot to offer to startups and businesses looking to scale.
That’s the message we are bringing to MD&M right now and what we shared with startups at CES last month. We met with 25 companies over two days during that show, including new businesses that:

fly drones into remote or rugged areas to deliver medical supplies;
gather your health data off your devices and connect them with your health records for your doctor, therapist or trainer; and
build one of the least expensive and easiest-to-use automated external defibrillator on the market.

Any of these companies would be a great addition to our area. They represent the industries – and jobs – that we are working hard to bring to the region. Not only because they pay well, but because they are quite literally the future.
Filed Under: BioScience, Business Attraction, Technology Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939