Education - Page 2 of 2 - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


EducationOctober 19, 2017 Leave a Comment NAU Economic Outlook Conference Nov. 9
Each November, the W.A. Franke College of Business at Northern Arizona University draws leading experts to Flagstaff to discuss the economic outlook for the … [Read more...] about NAU Economic Outlook Conference Nov. 9September 21, 2017 Leave a Comment Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid Dineen
Flagstaff STEM City recently celebrated its 5th anniversary and we caught up with its new Executive Director Brigid Dineen to talk about what brought her to … [Read more...] about Q&A: STEM City Executive Director Brigid DineenJuly 13, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s New School Superintendent
For Michael Penca, Flagstaff's new superintendent of schools, the inspiration to pursue a career in education originated with the teachers who taught him back … [Read more...] about Flagstaff’s New School SuperintendentMarch 22, 2017 Leave a Comment Flagstaff’s Education Sector Impact
It would be difficult to overestimate the impact Flagstaff's educational sector has on our community. In addition to the sheer number of employees who are … [Read more...] about Flagstaff’s Education Sector Impact« Previous PageFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939