A Labor Force on the Move - ECoNA































































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


October 16, 2016 1 Comment A Labor Force on the Move
A century ago, the economic corridor in Northern Arizona was primarily made up of smaller economies – very separate and very different.
Flagstaff was all about forestry; cattle dominated in Williams; and Winslow was created for the railroad (in fact, it is believed the town was actually named for railroad executive Edward F. Winslow).
And while Northern Arizona hasn’t developed into one sprawling region, with one town or city abutting the next straight along the length of I-40, over time it has become more cohesive, with more inter-connectivity between communities.
In fact, you might be surprised to know how big a commuting workforce we have here in Northern Arizona.
An analysis through the “On the Map” tool developed by the US Census Bureau’s Center for Economic Studies shows that in 2014, just over 24,600 people both lived and worked in the greater Flagstaff area. But the analysis also showed that even more people either commuted to Flagstaff for work (16,218 individuals) or, conversely, lived in the Flagstaff region and traveled elsewhere for their jobs (12,038).
For the purposes of the study, the greater Flagstaff area included Fort Valley, Doney Park, Kachina Village and Mountainaire.
Further analysis indicates that close to 38 percent of the Northern Arizona “labor shed” travels in excess of 50 miles to get to work.
One major benefit of our on-the-go workforce is that businesses can draw from a larger area when looking for workers, and are not necessarily tied to their immediate local labor pool.
That flexibility is one more benefit that economic developers can point to when attracting more high paying businesses to the region.
Filed Under: Workforce Tagged With: Economic Development, Flagstaff, WorkforceReader InteractionsComments




A WordPress Commenter says 
September 21, 2016 at 7:06 pm 

Hi, this is a comment.
To get started with moderating, editing, and deleting comments, please visit the Comments screen in the dashboard.
Commenter avatars come from Gravatar.

Reply


 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939