Thankful to be in Northern Arizona - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


November 21, 2017 Leave a Comment Thankful to be in Northern Arizona
In Northern Arizona, we have much to be thankful for.
We live in an area that is noted for its natural beauty and awe-inspiring landmarks, from the Grand Canyon to the world’s largest Ponderosa Pine forest to the painted desert. We are blessed with communities that balance the charms of small-town living with the amenities of a larger community.
Our many attractions drive a large tourism industry, but northern Arizona is no one trick pony. We are the home of an ever-growing manufacturing sector and world-class bioscience opportunities. We welcome and nurture entrepreneurs and encourage addressing today’s big problems by creating the technology of tomorrow.
Our quality of life is enhanced by a thriving arts and science community which also brings millions into the region’s economy each year. We embrace both STEM education and artistic innovation.
Speaking of education, our residents are among the best educated in Arizona. We are home to award-winning institutions like Northern Arizona University and Coconino Community College. And our residents are big-hearted, supporting hundreds of nonprofits.
Perhaps the thing to be most thankful for is how all of these elements work together to continue to improve northern Arizona. We are about collaboration and cooperation, not competition. ECoNA is a testiment to that – and we are thankful to the leaders on our executive board, advisory council, working groups and investors who are key to improving northern Arizona’s economic vitality to the benefit of all.
Best wishes to you and yours this Thanksgiving season.
Filed Under: Uncategorized Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939