Business Attraction - ECoNA













































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


Business AttractionOctober 29, 2020 Leave a Comment Camp Navajo Moves Closer to Economic Development
As we get ready to close out our celebration of Manufacturing Month, we set our sights on Camp Navajo in Bellemont, which may soon be primed for significant … [Read more...] about Camp Navajo Moves Closer to Economic DevelopmentSeptember 23, 2020 Leave a Comment Q&A with Winslow City Manager John Barkley
John Barkley has been the Winslow City Manager since December 2018 and is a member of the ECoNA Board of Directors. We asked him about his background and … [Read more...] about Q&A with Winslow City Manager John BarkleySeptember 16, 2020 Leave a Comment Senator McSally Meets with Advisory Council
Last week, members of the ECoNA Board and Advisory Council met via teleconference with U.S. Senator Martha McSally to talk about the state of our recovery, … [Read more...] about Senator McSally Meets with Advisory CouncilFebruary 13, 2020 Leave a Comment Promoting Our Region to Attract Companies
Greetings from Anaheim, California, and Medical Design & Manufacturing (MD&M) West - the world's largest trade show for MD&M companies. More than … [Read more...] about Promoting Our Region to Attract CompaniesFebruary 6, 2020 Leave a Comment Flagstaff Airport Has Best Year Ever
Securing United Airlines as a second air service provider for Flagstaff has led to unprecedented growth at our regional airport, with enplanements soaring to … [Read more...] about Flagstaff Airport Has Best Year EverNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939