Economic Development - ECoNA











































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


Economic DevelopmentMarch 11, 2021 Leave a Comment UACJ Whitehall Selects Flagstaff for New Auto Parts Plant
UACJ Automotive Whitehall Industries, a leading supplier of precision extruded aluminum automotive components and assemblies, will take over the former … [Read more...] about UACJ Whitehall Selects Flagstaff for New Auto Parts PlantJuly 23, 2020 Leave a Comment COVID-19 and the Arts
While everyone has been hard hit by COVID-19, it has been particularly difficult for the arts sector, where finding social-distancing workarounds can be … [Read more...] about COVID-19 and the ArtsNovember 8, 2017 Leave a Comment FSO’s Impact Continues Under New Conductor
A new era of the Flagstaff Symphony Orchestra began this fall under the baton of Maestro Charles Latshaw, who made his debut as the orchestra's musical director … [Read more...] about FSO’s Impact Continues Under New ConductorOctober 30, 2017 Leave a Comment Q&A with John Saltonstall
John Saltonstall, the City of Flagstaff's Business Retention & Expansion (BR&E) Manager, heads the ECoNA BR&E Team, which help existing city … [Read more...] about Q&A with John SaltonstallAugust 2, 2017 Leave a Comment Lake Powell Region: Changes & Opportunities
On behalf of Coconino County, we have had the privilege of working closely with hundreds of residents and stakeholders in the Lake Powell region for the past … [Read more...] about Lake Powell Region: Changes & OpportunitiesNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939