Uncategorized - Page 4 of 7 - ECoNA














































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


UncategorizedAugust 6, 2020 Leave a Comment Flagstaff Welcomes New Retail & Service Businesses
Even before the coronavirus, brick-and-mortar retailers and service providers faced challenges. E-commerce has put pressure on the sector for years. The … [Read more...] about Flagstaff Welcomes New Retail & Service BusinessesJuly 31, 2020 Leave a Comment Historic GDP & HEALS vs HEROES
This was a week of eye-popping numbers at the federal level, from the release of the Republicans long-awaited stimulus proposal to the data dropped yesterday by … [Read more...] about Historic GDP & HEALS vs HEROESJuly 23, 2020 Leave a Comment COVID-19 and the Arts
While everyone has been hard hit by COVID-19, it has been particularly difficult for the arts sector, where finding social-distancing workarounds can be … [Read more...] about COVID-19 and the ArtsJuly 17, 2020 Leave a Comment Bringing Businesses Closer to ‘Normal’
As our economic recovery tends to fluctuate with every pronouncement about COVID-19, two programs in Coconino County are working to bring local businesses … [Read more...] about Bringing Businesses Closer to ‘Normal’July 9, 2020 Leave a Comment What Will ‘Back to School’ Look Like?
It's been an interesting week for educators nationwide as they look for the safest ways to implement back to school plans for their students.

That planning … [Read more...] about What Will ‘Back to School’ Look Like?« Previous PageNext Page »FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939