Tourism - ECoNA











































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


TourismMay 14, 2020 Leave a Comment Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten Sinema
Last week, local business and government leaders discussed what is needed to speed up the region's economic recovery during a Zoom call with U.S. Senator … [Read more...] about Local Businesses Discuss Recovery with U.S. Senator Kyrsten SinemaMay 2, 2017 Leave a Comment The Grand Canyon: Then & Now (May 11 Event)
Arizona Forward, a coalition of business and civic leaders committed to both environmental sustainability and economic vitality in the state, are hosting a … [Read more...] about The Grand Canyon: Then & Now (May 11 Event)December 6, 2016 Leave a Comment Another Banner Year for Flagstaff Tourism
The economic vitality of our region is a puzzle with many pieces - emerging and traditional business sectors, housing, education and workforce development, to … [Read more...] about Another Banner Year for Flagstaff TourismNovember 3, 2016 Leave a Comment Williams: Staying Power in Changing Times
Williams, Arizona may not be a huge metropolis (the estimated population is less than 3,200 people), but as Mayor John W. Moore likes to say, it's a small town … [Read more...] about Williams: Staying Power in Changing TimesFooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939