Home - ECoNA


























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us




























  

















Our Services
By bringing new businesses to our region and strengthening those already here, our coalition of public, private and non-profit partners work to ensure the success of your business and the economic vitality of Northern Arizona.







Learn More











Doing Business Here

Northern Arizona invites inspired innovation. We have a talented, well-educated workforce and a location that blends the best of small town atmosphere with big city resources.







Learn More











Living Here
What are your priorities? A beautiful, caring community in which to raise a family? An abundance of outdoor recreation? A vibrant arts community? Learn why cities in Northern Arizona top the charts for livability.







Learn More













The Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona is your connector, facilitator and partner - whether you are a start-up just getting off the ground, an established business looking to expand, or a company wanting to relocate to the Northern Arizona region.






































Collaboration and community support provide the foundation for economic development. ECoNA is dedicated to making that happen.Chris Bavasi, ECoNA Board Chairman 

Being part of ECoNA lends tremendous value to Winslow’s continued economic development efforts by offering a vast regional network of resources and opportunities that can be accessed through our  membership.  Being part of the regional dialogue allows us to share information, benchmark best practices across the region, gain specific insights on successful initiatives happening across Northern Arizona, and enhance our own efforts to build and sustain quality growth and development.
John Barkley, Winslow City Manager






















RECENT POSTS












Using Virtual Reality for Workforce DevelopmentCoconino County and the Workforce Development Board are leading the way in helping dislocated workers and students explore new careers through virtual … Continue Reading about Using Virtual Reality for Workforce Development





Meeting the Challenge of the Delta VariantAs the Delta variant causes a surge in new infections and hospitalizations, the public and private sectors are scrambling to keep up with rapidly … Continue Reading about Meeting the Challenge of the Delta Variant


















































  








FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939