What Will 'Back to School' Look Like? - ECoNA




























































 Skip to content Skip to footerECoNAInspired Innovation at a Higher Elevation, Flagstaff, ArizongaHome
Doing Business Here
Living Here

Northern Arizona Communities
Education
Healthcare
Arts & Recreation


Resources & Data
Talent & Workforce
About ECONA

Blog
Our Services
Our Team
Contact Us


July 9, 2020 Leave a Comment What Will ‘Back to School’ Look Like?

It’s been an interesting week for educators nationwide as they look for the safest ways to implement back to school plans for their students.
That planning has been complicated by a daily tug-of-war between the White House administration, which is pushing for “fully” opened schools, and local health and education officials who are mostly pursuing hybrid plans that blend in-person with remote or digital learning.
The past 24 hours have been particularly dizzying, with Vice President Mike Pence announcing yesterday that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) would be releasing revised guidelines for reopening schools next week, and CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield saying this morning that the CDC would not be revising those recommendations, but would be “providing additional reference documents” to help schools as they work to reopen.
This is important, because the three major educational institutions in the Flagstaff area – Northern Arizona University (NAU), Coconino Community College (CCC) and Flagstaff Unified School District (FUSD) – created their reopening plans using the current CDC guidelines.
All three intend to offer a blend of in-person and remote classes:

Northern Arizona University’s current reopening plan includes NAUFlex, where “students and faculty can gather for class in person, or virtually, through a simultaneous digital streaming experience.” All classes for the fall semester will wrap up by Thanksgiving.
While CCC plans to start and end classes as previously scheduled (from August 24 through December 12), all classes will be completed online after the Thanksgiving holiday. The college is also offering students multiple options for completing coursework, including in-person classes, scheduled videoconferencing, or a mix of methods.
Meanwhile, FUSD is asking parents to weigh in on how they want their children to learn this year with a survey. Parents can choose from in-person learning, available for all grades; distancing learning for students in grades 5 through 12; and flexible remote learning, in which a student from kindergarten to 12th grade can start the school year with remote classes then transition to in-person learning at an FUSD school at quarterly intervals

Each of these institutions has indicated that their plans are living documents, subject to change as conditions evolve. Ultimately, school reopening plans are controlled at the state and local level – not by the federal government – but it will be interesting to see if the additional information from the CDC will change what “back to school” looks like this year.
Filed Under: Uncategorized Reader Interactions 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

FooterContact Us
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
Flagstaff, AZ 86001
phone: (928) 707-7939
econa-az.com

 ECONA is an economic collaborative organization supported by a multitude of agencies in Northern Arizona. The agency coordinates the regional efforts of private, public, and nonprofit organizations that are working to improve economic vitality in northern Arizona.

Follow ECoNA


Copyright © 2021
Economic Collaborative of Northern Arizona
201 E. Birch Ave., Suite 12
phone: (928) 707-7939