reform Archives - YWCA USA






































 



























				     MENU
				


					     CLOSE
					

About YWCA USA

History
Our CEO
Board of Directors
Staff
FAQ
Financial Statements
Employment Opportunities
World YWCA

The Objectives of World Council




What We Do

Domestic and Sexual Violence Services
YWCA Child Care Services and Programming
YWCA and Racial Justice
Young Women Choosing Action

Partnering with YWCA USA to Create ‘Young Women Choosing Action’ Program


Stand Against Racism
YWCA Data Maps

YWCA National Footprint of Women Empowerment Map
YWCA Opportunity Zones Map
YWCA CDFI Map
Program Inventory
National Clearinghouse of Research and Data


Our Mission In Action

Empowerment & Economic Advancement

Women Empowerment 360


Health & Safety


In Your Community
Family Planning Text/Chat Program


Advocacy

Get Out the Vote
Advocacy Agenda


Get Involved

Act Now
Ways to Give
Donate
Donate to Your Local Association
Donate to World Service Council
Sponsors & Partners


Connect

YWCA Podcast

Y Women Startup


Our Blog
Media Center
YWCA Monthly Newsletter
Contact Us


YWCA USA and COVID-19

YWCA and COVID-19 Emergency Response
YWCA COVID-19 Emergency Relief and Community Resiliency Fund



 

 

 Find Your YWCA 



 Donate 



 Act Now 



 Quick Escape 

















 







Women & Incarceration: A Crucial Conversation in Cambridge and Beyond






HomePosts Tagged "reform" 


A-
A
A+














Women & Incarceration: A Crucial Conversation in Cambridge and Beyond
Friday, May 23, 2014

By Anna J. Weick Administrative Assistant, YWCA Cambridge “[Prisons] are not places for human beings with spirits inside of them” – Andrea James In the past 30 years, women have become the fastest-growing incarcerated population in the United States, and activists in Cambridge are determined to fight for alternatives. This past Wednesday, the Cambridge Women’s Commission,… Continue Reading Women & Incarceration: A Crucial Conversation in Cambridge and Beyond



 


University of Texas Students Stand Up for Racial Justice and Immigration Reform
Thursday, November 21, 2013

By Christian Cabazos Development Coordinator, YWCA Greater Austin “We are here today because this fight is personal,” – America Ferrera, actor Celebrities, students, activists, staff and faculty joined for a noon rally at the University of Texas denouncing the (now canceled) anti-immigration event orchestrated by the Young Texas Conservatives. The student organization originally planned to… Continue Reading University of Texas Students Stand Up for Racial Justice and Immigration Reform



 


The “Other” Immigrants: Finding Solidarity While Maintaining Authenticity
Thursday, August 1, 2013

By Monique I. Liston Co-founder, All Black Everything Our focus on comprehensive immigration reform is an opportunity for some true “Black and Brown” unity. I think that immigration reform should be more important to African Americans as we continue to critically discuss the realities of economics, education, and work in this society. People often forget… Continue Reading The “Other” Immigrants: Finding Solidarity While Maintaining Authenticity



 


Comprehensive Immigration Reform Will Strengthen Our Nation and Society
Thursday, May 30, 2013

by Jessica Jones Grassroots Advocacy Manager, League of Women Voters America is a nation of immigrants. The very roots of our nation’s birth and development are built on the traditions and cultures of people from different backgrounds. These differences make our country unique. Because of these traditions we owe it to ourselves to make certain the… Continue Reading Comprehensive Immigration Reform Will Strengthen Our Nation and Society



 


Feminists Must Advance Immigrants’ Rights as Women’s Rights
Wednesday, May 8, 2013

By Christine Pelosi Chair, CA Democratic Party Women’s Caucus Fault lines run along color lines in American public life, and the women’s movement is no exception. Over the years, feminism has become more inclusive but there is still hard work to be done to include LGBT women and communities of color. Nothing will test the… Continue Reading Feminists Must Advance Immigrants’ Rights as Women’s Rights



 
1 2Last




Recent Posts


YWCA Works to Prevent Violence on College Campuses during Back-to-School Season


YWCA Statement on Texas Law S.B. 8


Women’s Equality Day


Looking Ahead on Women’s Equality Day


YWCA Helps Youth Return Strong During Back-to-School Season


Categories

Blog

Monthly Newsletter

News

Podcast

Public Release

Video













Home
About
What We Do
Get Involved
Connect
Contact
Blog
Sitemap
 






 



 

 






1400 I Street, Suite 325 Washington, DC 20005   |  Phone: (202) 467-0801  |  Fax: (202) 467-0802  |  info@ywca.org
YWCA USA Intranet (Login Required)  |  YWCA is a 501(c)(3) charity. Donations are tax deductible. Tax ID#: 13-1624103








						© 2021 YWCA USA, All Rights Reserved.


Privacy Policy