What Women Want blog carnival Archives - YWCA USA






































 



























				     MENU
				


					     CLOSE
					

About YWCA USA

History
Our CEO
Board of Directors
Staff
FAQ
Financial Statements
Employment Opportunities
World YWCA

The Objectives of World Council




What We Do

Domestic and Sexual Violence Services
YWCA Child Care Services and Programming
YWCA and Racial Justice
Young Women Choosing Action

Partnering with YWCA USA to Create ‘Young Women Choosing Action’ Program


Stand Against Racism
YWCA Data Maps

YWCA National Footprint of Women Empowerment Map
YWCA Opportunity Zones Map
YWCA CDFI Map
Program Inventory
National Clearinghouse of Research and Data


Our Mission In Action

Empowerment & Economic Advancement

Women Empowerment 360


Health & Safety


In Your Community
Family Planning Text/Chat Program


Advocacy

Get Out the Vote
Advocacy Agenda


Get Involved

Act Now
Ways to Give
Donate
Donate to Your Local Association
Donate to World Service Council
Sponsors & Partners


Connect

YWCA Podcast

Y Women Startup


Our Blog
Media Center
YWCA Monthly Newsletter
Contact Us


YWCA USA and COVID-19

YWCA and COVID-19 Emergency Response
YWCA COVID-19 Emergency Relief and Community Resiliency Fund



 

 

 Find Your YWCA 



 Donate 



 Act Now 



 Quick Escape 

















 







What Women Want: A Blog Carnival for Immigration Reform






HomePosts Tagged "What Women Want blog carnival" 


A-
A
A+














What Women Want: A Blog Carnival for Immigration Reform
Thursday, May 30, 2013

On June 6, 2013, we’re convening YWCA local associations, immigration reform activists and our national partners to call on Capitol Hill for the passage of comprehensive, common-sense reform with a focus on women, girls and immigrant communities. We’re calling it: “What Women Want: A National Day of Action for Immigration Reform.” To get ready, read… Continue Reading What Women Want: A Blog Carnival for Immigration Reform



 


Immigration Reform: The Personal and the Political
Thursday, May 30, 2013

By Madeline Shepherd National Council of Jewish Women The ongoing debate over immigration reform tends to fall into two camps: the personal and the political. The personal is advocacy that stems from personal stories, including those about families separated for a decade or more, undocumented parents of citizen children who are seized in raids and… Continue Reading Immigration Reform: The Personal and the Political



 


Comprehensive Immigration Reform Will Strengthen Our Nation and Society
Thursday, May 30, 2013

by Jessica Jones Grassroots Advocacy Manager, League of Women Voters America is a nation of immigrants. The very roots of our nation’s birth and development are built on the traditions and cultures of people from different backgrounds. These differences make our country unique. Because of these traditions we owe it to ourselves to make certain the… Continue Reading Comprehensive Immigration Reform Will Strengthen Our Nation and Society



 


Why Racial Profiling Matters for Women and Families
Thursday, May 30, 2013

by Sameera Hafiz Policy Director, Rights Working Group Rights Working Group, alongside our members and allied organizations, has been urging Congress to adopt a ban on racial profiling within comprehensive immigration reform.  Racial profiling is the use of race, ethnicity, religion, gender and/or national origin by law enforcement agents in deciding whom to investigate, arrest or… Continue Reading Why Racial Profiling Matters for Women and Families



 


Mother’s Day: Bittersweet Reminder of Immigrant Women’s Struggles
Thursday, May 30, 2013

By Priscilla Huang, JD Policy Director for the Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum (APIAHF) Originally published on 5/8/13 May 12 is the day to celebrate not only our mothers and motherhood, but also the many wonderful women who have touched our lives in one way or another. For me, this day is even more… Continue Reading Mother’s Day: Bittersweet Reminder of Immigrant Women’s Struggles



 
1 2 3Last




Recent Posts


YWCA Works to Prevent Violence on College Campuses during Back-to-School Season


YWCA Statement on Texas Law S.B. 8


Women’s Equality Day


Looking Ahead on Women’s Equality Day


YWCA Helps Youth Return Strong During Back-to-School Season


Categories

Blog

Monthly Newsletter

News

Podcast

Public Release

Video













Home
About
What We Do
Get Involved
Connect
Contact
Blog
Sitemap
 






 



 

 






1400 I Street, Suite 325 Washington, DC 20005   |  Phone: (202) 467-0801  |  Fax: (202) 467-0802  |  info@ywca.org
YWCA USA Intranet (Login Required)  |  YWCA is a 501(c)(3) charity. Donations are tax deductible. Tax ID#: 13-1624103








						© 2021 YWCA USA, All Rights Reserved.


Privacy Policy