police Archives - YWCA USA





































 



























				     MENU
				


					     CLOSE
					

About YWCA USA

History
Our CEO
Board of Directors
Staff
FAQ
Financial Statements
Employment Opportunities
World YWCA

The Objectives of World Council




What We Do

Domestic and Sexual Violence Services
YWCA Child Care Services and Programming
YWCA and Racial Justice
Young Women Choosing Action

Partnering with YWCA USA to Create ‘Young Women Choosing Action’ Program


Stand Against Racism
YWCA Data Maps

YWCA National Footprint of Women Empowerment Map
YWCA Opportunity Zones Map
YWCA CDFI Map
Program Inventory
National Clearinghouse of Research and Data


Our Mission In Action

Empowerment & Economic Advancement

Women Empowerment 360


Health & Safety


In Your Community
Family Planning Text/Chat Program


Advocacy

Get Out the Vote
Advocacy Agenda


Get Involved

Act Now
Ways to Give
Donate
Donate to Your Local Association
Donate to World Service Council
Sponsors & Partners


Connect

YWCA Podcast

Y Women Startup


Our Blog
Media Center
YWCA Monthly Newsletter
Contact Us


YWCA USA and COVID-19

YWCA and COVID-19 Emergency Response
YWCA COVID-19 Emergency Relief and Community Resiliency Fund



 

 

 Find Your YWCA 



 Donate 



 Act Now 



 Quick Escape 

















 







Men have the power to end violence against women






HomePosts Tagged "police" 


A-
A
A+














Men have the power to end violence against women
Wednesday, June 25, 2014

By Patricia Glaser Shea President and CEO, YWCA Nashville & Middle Tennessee  Nearly nine months ago, domestic violence victim advocates stood proudly in front of the Metro Courthouse as our city’s leaders presented recommendations for system-wide improvements to Nashville’s response to domestic violence. The recommendations came after Mayor Karl Dean commissioned and completed a domestic… Continue Reading Men have the power to end violence against women



 


Why Racial Profiling Matters for Women and Families
Thursday, May 30, 2013

by Sameera Hafiz Policy Director, Rights Working Group Rights Working Group, alongside our members and allied organizations, has been urging Congress to adopt a ban on racial profiling within comprehensive immigration reform.  Racial profiling is the use of race, ethnicity, religion, gender and/or national origin by law enforcement agents in deciding whom to investigate, arrest or… Continue Reading Why Racial Profiling Matters for Women and Families



 


“We Shall Overcome” Racial Injustice: Lessons from the Civil Rights Movement
Friday, April 26, 2013

By Joan Witherspoon Norris, Director of Social Justice, and Jacob Smith, Donor Relations Specialist YWCA of Central Alabama This year marks the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Movement in the United States. In 1963, Birmingham, Alabama was at the center of these momentous events that would change history. Sit-ins at lunch counters, Dr. Martin… Continue Reading “We Shall Overcome” Racial Injustice: Lessons from the Civil Rights Movement



 


Preventing Violence Before It Happens: Bringing Youth and Law Enforcement Together
Friday, October 19, 2012

by Efrain Arias Youth Outreach Coordinator, YWCA Boston We who live in Boston are fortunate to live in a city with relatively low crime rates. Most of us walk the city streets with little fear, regardless of what time of day or night it may be. This, of course, is not the reality for all residents… Continue Reading Preventing Violence Before It Happens: Bringing Youth and Law Enforcement Together



 


Tragedy in Springfield, Mass.: When VAWA and Local Domestic Violence Intersect
Wednesday, July 18, 2012

by Mary Reardon Johnson Executive Director, YWCA of Western Massachusetts Officer down!  Around the city of Springfield, Mass., sirens blare, lights flash, emergency vehicles screech and news media are dispatched. Yellow tape goes up and the first accounts are sent out over the air and internet. The veteran police officer responded to a call requesting… Continue Reading Tragedy in Springfield, Mass.: When VAWA and Local Domestic Violence Intersect



 




Recent Posts


YWCA Works to Prevent Violence on College Campuses during Back-to-School Season


YWCA Statement on Texas Law S.B. 8


Women’s Equality Day


Looking Ahead on Women’s Equality Day


YWCA Helps Youth Return Strong During Back-to-School Season


Categories

Blog

Monthly Newsletter

News

Podcast

Public Release

Video













Home
About
What We Do
Get Involved
Connect
Contact
Blog
Sitemap
 






 



 

 






1400 I Street, Suite 325 Washington, DC 20005   |  Phone: (202) 467-0801  |  Fax: (202) 467-0802  |  info@ywca.org
YWCA USA Intranet (Login Required)  |  YWCA is a 501(c)(3) charity. Donations are tax deductible. Tax ID#: 13-1624103








						© 2021 YWCA USA, All Rights Reserved.


Privacy Policy