privilege Archives - YWCA USA






































 



























				     MENU
				


					     CLOSE
					

About YWCA USA

History
Our CEO
Board of Directors
Staff
FAQ
Financial Statements
Employment Opportunities
World YWCA

The Objectives of World Council




What We Do

Domestic and Sexual Violence Services
YWCA Child Care Services and Programming
YWCA and Racial Justice
Young Women Choosing Action

Partnering with YWCA USA to Create ‘Young Women Choosing Action’ Program


Stand Against Racism
YWCA Data Maps

YWCA National Footprint of Women Empowerment Map
YWCA Opportunity Zones Map
YWCA CDFI Map
Program Inventory
National Clearinghouse of Research and Data


Our Mission In Action

Empowerment & Economic Advancement

Women Empowerment 360


Health & Safety


In Your Community
Family Planning Text/Chat Program


Advocacy

Get Out the Vote
Advocacy Agenda


Get Involved

Act Now
Ways to Give
Donate
Donate to Your Local Association
Donate to World Service Council
Sponsors & Partners


Connect

YWCA Podcast

Y Women Startup


Our Blog
Media Center
YWCA Monthly Newsletter
Contact Us


YWCA USA and COVID-19

YWCA and COVID-19 Emergency Response
YWCA COVID-19 Emergency Relief and Community Resiliency Fund



 

 

 Find Your YWCA 



 Donate 



 Act Now 



 Quick Escape 

















 







Finding My Identity






HomePosts Tagged "privilege" 


A-
A
A+














Finding My Identity
Friday, April 25, 2014

By Chloe Irizarry-Nelson Racial Justice Department Intern, YWCA Madison As a multiracial girl growing up in a diverse and largely low-income neighborhood on Long Island, I learned about the concept of race at a young age. I first learned a part of my identity when my mother and grandmother told me that I was Puerto… Continue Reading Finding My Identity



 


Giving Women a Voice
Wednesday, October 16, 2013

By Sarah Dugan YWCA Bergen’s healingSPACE Violence begins with oppression, and oppression is motivated by power. In society, there is one specific group that holds power: white men. This is not to say that all white men purposefully maintain positions of power over other groups of people; rather, this power is a privilege that was… Continue Reading Giving Women a Voice



 


Some Things to Remember as We Talk about Race, Identity and Trayvon Martin
Thursday, July 18, 2013

By Qudsia Jafree Senior Policy & Advocacy Associate, Racial Justice and Civil Rights This week, the U.S. has been involved in an important, nationwide conversation about racial profiling and civil rights. This conversation has involved voices from every side of the political and social spectrum, discussing everything from Florida’s “Stand Your Ground” law and when/to… Continue Reading Some Things to Remember as We Talk about Race, Identity and Trayvon Martin



 


Affirmative Action Is About More Than Diversity
Thursday, June 27, 2013

by Chris Lewis Reporter at Campus Progress On Monday, the Supreme Court delivered its much-anticipated decision on the constitutionality of race-based affirmative action, ruling in Fisher v. University of Texas that affirmative action programs can continue in principle, but establishing new standards for evaluating the policy’s legality. Writing for the majority in a 7-1 decision, Justice Anthony Kennedy… Continue Reading Affirmative Action Is About More Than Diversity



 


It’s Time for the Poor to Come Out of the Plutocracy’s Closet of Shame
Monday, December 3, 2012

By Jeff Nall Truthout | Op-Ed As a college-educated, heterosexual, white, male American citizen I know something about (unearned) privilege. But being poor – for the last three years our family of five has lived on, and continues to live on, well under $30,000 annually – has also taught me that a social analysis that… Continue Reading It’s Time for the Poor to Come Out of the Plutocracy’s Closet of Shame



 
1 2Last




Recent Posts


YWCA Works to Prevent Violence on College Campuses during Back-to-School Season


YWCA Statement on Texas Law S.B. 8


Women’s Equality Day


Looking Ahead on Women’s Equality Day


YWCA Helps Youth Return Strong During Back-to-School Season


Categories

Blog

Monthly Newsletter

News

Podcast

Public Release

Video













Home
About
What We Do
Get Involved
Connect
Contact
Blog
Sitemap
 






 



 

 






1400 I Street, Suite 325 Washington, DC 20005   |  Phone: (202) 467-0801  |  Fax: (202) 467-0802  |  info@ywca.org
YWCA USA Intranet (Login Required)  |  YWCA is a 501(c)(3) charity. Donations are tax deductible. Tax ID#: 13-1624103








						© 2021 YWCA USA, All Rights Reserved.


Privacy Policy