Events - Positivepaths

































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 











Other Events

 

Home   »   Events

 
 
 
 




Calendar

 
 
 



Positive Paths offers a number of other events during the year, so check this page often for other opportunities.

IMAGING EVENT
In partnership with Assistance League of East Valley, another “imaging event” was planned for Monday, May 18, 2020, at the Assistance League Thrift Shop on 2326 N. Alma School Road in Chandler. The goal was to help participants select professional clothing and accessories, while mingling with other Positive Paths women, mentors and board members. Unfortunately this event needs to be rescheduled due to the pandemic. We will post information about a new date as soon as it is safe to gather again. Call our office (480-788-0615) if you have any questions, or if you have clothing and accessories that you can donate.

 

ONLINE SILENT AUCTION and RAFFLE
In order to continue to support the women we serve, we added a summer online auction and raffle to help raise funds. Thank you to those who participated in the July 16-22, 2020, online auction for purses, restaurant gift cards, spa treatments, passes to local attractions and more. The Sam Edelman Designer Shoe Raffle ended on August 15, 2020 and the winner’s name was pulled. Congratulations to Dr. Terry Leyba Ruiz on winning the raffle! And thanks to all who bought tickets! Proceeds help to provide scholarship and mentoring programs for the women we serve.
CLICK HERE to watch the drawing take place! CLICK HERE to see the lucky winner receiving the congratulatory call. CLICK HERE to be reminded about what women can accomplish when they receive our support. Thank you donors!

 

MENTORING BREAKFAST
Participants in the Scholarship and Mentoring Program will gather on Saturday, September 19, 2020, to meet their mentors, mingle with the other women who have been selected, and be introduced to the Positive Paths Board of Directors. More details about this special event will be sent via email to the scholars-mentees.

 

 
 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress