Annual Gala - Positivepaths




































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 












Night of Heroes Gala
Save the Date
OCTOBER 5, 2021

 
 
 
 




Igniting a Future: Night of Heroes Gala
Tuesday, October 5, 2021
at Stonebridge Manor in Mesa



Join us in honoring the Man and Woman of the Year 2021.
Through your generosity, the funds raised at our annual gala
allow us to continue to support East Valley women.




 
 
 

 

Purchase Sponsorships or Tickets

Download Gala Sponsorship and Ticket Information

 
 
 
 




A Night of Heroes Gala

 


 
 
 




Positive Paths Man and Woman of the Year

 
 
 



Jeff Blandford

Jeff Blandford, CEO of Blandford Homes, a Gilbert-based organization, has been selected and will be recognized as Man of the Year. The award-winning Arizona builder has won numerous professional awards including 2014 Home Builder of the Year. Although his professional achievements are astounding, he was selected for his extraordinary commitment to families in the communities we serve.
He has long been a major donor to Child Crisis Arizona, Sunshine Acres Children’s Home, Habitat for Humanity, Mesa Senior Services, United Food Bank and U.S. Troops. As one example of his charitable leadership, he assumed architectural and construction management of the Sunshine Acres campus, which has resulted in over a million dollars in savings to the organization, which has been redirected to services for the children.
A friend of Jeff’s, Ronald Sandler, says “Jeff is a very humble and quiet man who flies under the radar in terms of his philanthropy, but the results are truly dramatic to the organizations receiving his largesse.”
Terry Lent, a sales manager at Blandford Homes, has known Jeff for more than 25 years. “Jeff has made a huge difference in our community, volunteering time and donating funds to change the lives of the abused, neglected and needy.” Terry, who has served on the board for Child Crisis Arizona, reports that Jeff helped build their current facility in Mesa and has been a substantial donor for over 35 years. “Jeff supports organizations providing children a safe environment, free from abuse and neglect, creating strong and successful families.” His colleague Terry summarizes, “Jeff defines all that is good. He’s humble, honest, a man of integrity and character, who leads by example.”
Jeff has ongoing plans to continue to give back to the community through direct resources of time and capital as well as leveraging resources of others to assist in positive outcomes for those organizations that contribute much-needed services to the community.

 
 


Sandra Hudson

Sandra Hudson, President of TrustBank Arizona and CEO of Trust and Wealth Management for TrustBank, has been selected and will be recognized as Woman of the Year. In addition to her outstanding professional achievements, what truly defines Sandra is her ongoing commitment to developing communities as a generous philanthropic leader.
As one of the founders of Positive Paths, Sandra helped establish the non-profit organization serving women with its signature scholarship and mentoring program, professional development activities and fundraising events.
Once a single mother of three children, Sandra understands the plight of the women served by the organization she helped create. She has served in numerous roles as Positive Paths continues its strategic growth. She has engaged numerous sponsors and donors for Positive Paths, while leading the organization’s strategy in community development and partnerships, including assisting with the annual gala. Sandra has served on the boards of Fresh Start Women’s Foundation, East Valley Partnership, the Mesa Arts Center, Valley of the Sun United Way, and the Dignity Health Foundation. She has held numerous leadership roles on these boards including chairing the East Valley Council for Fresh Start, serving on the Executive Board for East Valley Partnership, and chairing the Dignity Health women’s philanthropic board.
In 2017, Hudson was named one of the fifty “most influential women in Arizona business,” based on her proven track record of profitability, leadership and innovation. Over 25 years, she has earned numerous other awards and accolades for her expertise on women’s financial issues and wealth management including the creation of the business group, Women in Wealth.
Sandra is a role model who rose above personal adversity to the highest level of her profession, and consistently reaches back to help others achieve the financial stability and security that all families deserve.

 
 
 
 




We are grateful for the support
of these sponsors!

 
 
 

 



 



 
 
 

 



 



 



 
 
 




 



 



 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress