Success Stories - Positivepaths

































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 











Success stories

 

Home   »   Success Stories

 
 
 
 





 


Amanda Landingham
Amanda began her journey with Positive Paths in 2015 during her last year attending Chandler-Gilbert Community College, while working the overnight shift at Walmart. Determined to become more literate and achieve an education, Amanda states, “I knew there would be challenges, but I was determined!”
Amanda successfully graduated in 2018 with a Bachelor’s degree in Educational Studies from Arizona State University while teaching in a special needs classroom in the Roosevelt School District.
“Positive Paths provided me with more than just financial assistance; I have learned valuable lifelong tools on how to be a successful woman in my professional and personal life,” Amanda says. “I had a lot of support throughout my educational journey, it was an honor to look up at graduation and see my family and friends. At that moment, I realized “I had made them proud”. I am now able to hold my head high because I know that I have something to offer the world.”

 
 
 
 




Ayla Lopez
Ayla’s life trajectory traumatically changed after the brutal murder of her husband, leaving her a single mother. She started her journey with Positive Paths in the fall of 2014 while studying for a paralegal certification at Rio Salado College. She eventually transferred to Mesa Community College and then again to Arizona State University where she studies at ASU’s prestigious Barrett, the Honors College. She will graduate in December 2018 with her Bachelor’s degree and plans to apply to Law School.
Ayla has certainly been busy raising and supporting her two daughters and son while studying hard to achieve her goals. Her mentor for the past 4 years, Becky Cholewka, founding attorney of Cholewka Law, has been Ayla’s mentor and champion throughout her Positive Paths journey. Ayla states, “Becky has helped me when my daughters return to school, during Christmas, and after my son was born, with materials that I needed. She is always looking for ways to assist me.” With Positive Paths support, there is no limit to what Ayla will accomplish!

 
 



 
 




 


Ayla Lopez
Ayla’s life trajectory traumatically changed after the brutal murder of her husband, leaving her a single mother. She started her journey with Positive Paths in the fall of 2014 while studying for a paralegal certification at Rio Salado Community College. She eventually transferred to Mesa Community College and then again to Arizona State University where she studies at ASU’s prestigious Barrett, the Honors College. She will graduate in December 2018 with her Bachelor’s degree and plans to apply to Law School.
Ayla has certainly been busy raising and supporting her two daughters and son while studying hard to achieve her goals. Her mentor for the past 4 years, Becky Cholewka, founding attorney of Cholewka Law, has been Ayla’s mentor and champion throughout her Positive Paths journey. Ayla states, “Becky has helped me when my daughters return to school, during Christmas, and after my son was born, with materials that I needed. She is always looking for ways to assist me.” With Positive Paths support, there is no limit to what Ayla will accomplish!

 
 
 
 





 


Sarah Koch
Sarah’s life has had many twists and turns and her current life-journey consists of a new chapter of positivity and possibility!
Sarah has been married for nine years and has two adult children – one in community college and the other attending the University of Montana. She is currently enrolled at Chandler-Gilbert Community College working towards obtaining her Associate’s degree in Information Technology with a focus on Network Administration. In October 2017, Sarah was accepted as a member of Phi Theta Kappa. Additionally, Sarah is employed working for a medical device company.
Sarah states, “Positive Paths has shown me that I am worthy of achieving my dreams of finishing school by also helping me along the way!”

 
 
 
 




Berenice Pelayo
Berenice recently graduated from Central Arizona College (CAC). Since joining Positive Paths, Berenice has accomplished many wonderful things! She was a part of the Honors program at CAC, studied abroad in China, and was a recent recipient of the All Arizona Academic Scholarship. Berenice’s family consists of immigrant parents and one younger sister. Her mother, who has her M.Ed., inspired her to pursue her education.
Berenice is now a student at Arizona State University and the Barrett Honors College. This year she has been busy working at DREAMzone ASU while continuing her studies. Although juggling her time can be challenging, she is doing extremely well! Her study abroad impacted her decision to major in global politics. She plans to pursue her Master’s degree after she completes her Bachelor’s degree and aspires to work as a Foreign Service officer within the field of public diplomacy.
Berenice states, “Being part of a community that focuses on empowerment is motivating and inspiring! The workshops, mentoring and financial assistance has made my journey in higher education a reality with Positive Paths helping every step of the way.”

 
 



 
 




 


Berenice Pelayo
Berenice recently graduated from Central Arizona College (CAC). Since joining Positive Paths, Berenice has accomplished many wonderful things! She was a part of the Honors program at CAC, studied abroad in China, and was a recent recipient of the All Arizona Academic Scholarship. Berenice’s family consists of immigrant parents and one younger sister. Her mother, who has her M.Ed., inspired her to pursue her education.
Berenice is now a student at Arizona State University and the Barrett Honors College. This year she has been busy working at DREAMzone ASU while continuing her studies. Although juggling her time can be challenging, she is doing extremely well! Her study abroad impacted her decision to major in global politics. She plans to pursue her Master’s degree after she completes her Bachelor’s degree and aspires to work as a Foreign Service officer within the field of public diplomacy.
Berenice states, “Being part of a community that focuses on empowerment is motivating and inspiring! The workshops, mentoring and financial assistance has made my journey in higher education a reality with Positive Paths helping every step of the way.”

 
 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress