Programs and Services - Positivepaths

































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 











Programs

 

Home   »   Programs and Services

 
 
 
 




Scholarship and Mentoring Program:
As of July 2020, Positive Paths distributed over $185,000 in scholarship funds serving 76 East Valley women and counting. In addition to the distribution of scholarship funds, each woman is provided with one-on-one mentoring. Mentors are professionals, often with experience in the chosen career path of the scholar with whom they are matched.
Scholarships assist individuals in attaining the education that is critical to strengthening family well-being and economic security. Given that postsecondary education is associated with higher incomes, better health, and improved educational outcomes, increasing college attainment can have far-reaching, multi-generational benefits for families and communities. We can help improve college completion for women, contribute to the growing demand for highly educated workers, increase tax contributions, and reduce public benefits spending (see https://iwpr.org).
Mentoring has proven to be a critical element of success by providing mentees with the opportunity to broaden their perspective, build social capital, navigate organizational politics more strategically, and muster up the confidence to “lean in” and speak up when it matters most.

 

The program description and application are now available for women who want to apply to begin in the Positive Paths Scholarship and Mentoring Program in the fall of 2021. Click on the buttons below to download the documents.

Please read the program description carefully as it details the criteria to be eligible for the program. The deadline to apply is May 14, 2021, and there are several parts to the application process. 

 
 
 


Apply by May 14 for Fall 2021

Program Description, Criteria for Eligibility and Important Information

 
 

 





Mentoring Workshops and Events:
In addition to the one-on-one mentors matched to our scholars, we provide mentoring workshops and events accessible to all East Valley women. These events provide networking opportunities with industry professionals and provide individuals with additional knowledge and skills necessary for personal and professional success.
Positive Paths experiences provide structured activities to promote positive, professional interactions, increase conversational skills, and provide additional access to potential academic and career-related connections and opportunities within our community.
 

 


 
 

 





Professional Development Support:
Positive Paths invests in the futures of East Valley women to ensure the productivity and potential of the workforce in our community. We do this by assisting individuals in obtaining the skills and education needed for successful work performance. This includes providing individuals with public speaking opportunities, encouraging women to think aspirationally and step outside their comfort zones to take on new challenges. We assist women in acquiring a professional image that is appropriate for their career field, including business clothing, resume writing, time management, financial tools, decision-making skills, etc. In short, we amplify the ability for women to obtain and maintain successful employment.
Here is a short video describing one of our 2019 professional development events.

 




 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress