Home - Positivepaths


































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 









 


Building Life Bridges
for Women

 

We support East Valley women by providing
a life bridge to economic stability, personal growth
and professional achievement.

 
Learn More

 
 
 




Positive Paths is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization serving women and their families in the East Valley of Phoenix, Arizona. We are dedicated to advocating for and supporting the economic stability and empowerment of women. Positive Paths is led by a group of forward-thinking East Valley leaders committed to encouraging others to invest in the futures of East Valley women in need, and to support women to be resilient and positive contributors to their communities.
We believe that empowering women to be key change agents is an essential element to achieving a world that works for everyone. In fact, studies show that when women are supported and empowered, all of society benefits – families are healthier, more children complete elementary and high school and go on to trade school or college, productivity improves and incomes increase. In short, communities are strengthened.
Join us as we strive to improve our community by providing the needed education, mentoring, and professional development skills for women to obtain economic security for themselves, their families, and our community!

 
 
 



Programs and services

 


 
 





Scholarship and Mentoring Program

 
 




Mentoring Events

 
 




Professional Development Events and Activities

 
 
 
 


 


Events and Workshops

 

In addition to the one-on-one mentors matched to our scholars, we provide mentoring workshops and events accessible to all East Valley women. These events provide networking opportunities with industry professionals and provide individuals with additional knowledge and skills necessary for personal and professional success. Our professional development support assists individuals in obtaining the skills and training needed for successful work performance. This includes providing individuals with business clothing, resume writing, time management, financial tools, decision-making skills, etc.

 
Read More


 

 
 
 
 




Women Helped

 
 
 



Received College Scholarships and Mentoring

 


Attended Mentoring and Professional Development Events

 


Received Business Clothing and Accessories

 
 
 




 

 





Watch more Positive Paths videos on our YouTube channel (click here)

 
 
 
 




Futures ignited

 


 
 





Amanda Landingham

 
 




Ayla Lopez

 
 




Sarah Koch

 
 




Berenice Pelayo

 
 
 




 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress