Donate - Positivepaths

































































Home
About

Our Story
Our Team
Our Partners
Our Service Area


Programs and Services

Scholarships and Mentoring
Mentoring Events
Professional Development


Events

Annual Gala
Golf Event
Other Events


Impact

Success Stories
Reports


Donate

Time
Talent
Treasure


Contact Us
 





Select Page


  
 



 



 











Donate

 

Home   »   Donate

 
 
 
 




Time

 


 
 



Join Positive Paths as we transform lives in the East Valley! Be a part of creating a resilient, sustainable workforce and community by sharing your time and expertise. Volunteer by sponsoring a workshop, help us with our programming and events, help us fundraise and establish community partnerships and connections, help us with program administration, serve on a committee, and more. The possibilities are endless and the rewards are everlasting! Contact us at info@positivepathsaz.org for more information about volunteer opportunities.

 
 
 
 




Talent

 


 
 



Share your talents and professional expertise with the Positive Paths community! Be a mentor and/or sponsor a mentoring experience.
Positive Paths’ one-on-one mentors are well-respected individuals in their company or community who have the desire to help women who are striving for a better life through improved education, career opportunities, and services. The mentor offers support, mentoring, coaching, dialogue, listening, and connecting with other resources to one of our selected scholar-mentees. In addition, the mentor can offer advice, honest feedback, empowerment, encouragement and perspective which can lead to enhanced achievement for the mentee.
A Positive Paths’ mentoring experience provides a group event to 20 or more individuals as they network, learn new skills, support one another through positive peer interaction, and practice professional skill sets. These experiences can take the form of an educational workshop, seminar, panel discussion, round table, interactive experience, webinar, or a variety of other formats. If you are interested in participating in a meaningful and life-amplifying activity, be a mentor today! Contact us at info@positivepathsaz.org for more information.

 
 
 
 




Treasure
Did you know that only 1.6% of American’s charitable giving goes to non-profit organizations that help women and girls?  We need your support to continue helping our women. Thank you for your generosity!

 


 
 





 

Mail a Check

 

Make your check payable to Positive Paths and mail to:
Positive Paths
1550 S Alma School Rd.,Ste 250
Mesa, AZ 85210

 
 




 

Paypal

 

Give your one time donation to Positive Paths through PayPal. PayPal is a generous supporter and sponsor of Positive Paths.

 
Donate via paypal

 




 

double your impact with employer matching

 

Request a matching donation from your employer, whether you made your donation online or offline.

 
 




 

Reoccurring Donations

 

Join the Rudge Foundation and other community leaders in our monthly planned giving program.

 
Rudge's Wishes

 
 
 




Other Ways to Help

 
 
 




ARIZONA GIVES
#GivingTuesday was created in 2012 with a simple idea: a day that encourages people to do good. It always takes place the Tuesday after Thanksgiving (November 30, 2021, this year). It is a global day of charitable giving unleashing the power of people and organizations to transform their communities and the world. Please help us help deserving women through our scholarship and mentoring program — donate by clicking here!

 

ARIZONA STATE TAX CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS
As a Qualifying Charitable Organization (QCO), Positive Paths is eligible for the Arizona State Tax Credit program. By making a donation through this program, you will receive a dollar-for-dollar credit off of your Arizona state taxes. You can donate any amount up to $400 for individuals and $800 for married couples. Any dollar amount helps!
After you make your donation, remember to keep the receipt that Positive Paths will provide for you, then fill out AZ Form 321 and include it with your state tax filing. Our QCO code is 22350. Thank you for supporting our women!

 

SMILE AMAZON
Many of us use Amazon for our shopping. Did you know that if you use AmazonSmile, a portion of your purchase can benefit the women of Positive Paths? Go to smile.amazon.com and identify Positive Paths as your charity. From that point forward, your purchases made on smile.amazon.com will help support us. You can even check the impact you are having — go to your account and look for “Your AmazonSmile” to see how much your purchases have helped generate. Thank you!

 

FRY’S COMMUNITY REWARDS
When you shop at Fry’s and use your V.I.P. account, you can help contribute to Positive Paths through the Fry’s Community Rewards program. From the Fry’s website (www.frysfood.com), sign-in (or create) your account. Then go to the Community Rewards website (www.frysfood.com/i/community/community-rewards). Under “Find Your Organization” enter our Positive Paths Non-Profit Organization (NPO) number, which is SR609. Once you select Positive Paths, you’ll notice that your online account and store receipts will now indicate that a portion of your spending will benefit the women of Positive Paths. Thank you!

 
 
 
 





 
 
 


Contact Us

 




(480) 788-0615


 
 




info@positivepathsaz.org


 
 
 


RECENT NEWSLETTERS

 

Summer 2021 Newsletter

 

April 2021 Newsletter

 

January 2021 Newsletter

 

October 2020 Newsletter

 
 


Subscribe To Our Newsletter

 






Success!



Email





Subscribe











facebook

instagram

twitter

Youtube

 
 
 
 




2018 © All Rights Reserved

 
 
 
  
  
 
 







Facebook




Twitter




Google




RSS


Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress